U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23060846 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: NOV. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public relations (PR) director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a degree in PR from ______ University in 2014. She worked for 
various agencies as a PR specialist from 2012 to to 2015, and as a freelance PR manager from 2015 to 
201 7. In 201 7, she founde a a PR agency in Russia where she served as director. 
Since March 2019, the Petitioner has been intermittently in the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant 
visitor. The Petitioner intends to establish her own new PR firm in New York. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she meets five of the criteria, and that she has submitted evidence comparable to receipt 
of a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
As explained below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three of 
the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The wording of the regulation requires the prizes or awards to be received by the individual, not by his or 
her employer. 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner documented her employers' receipt of various awards. The Petitioner asse1ied that 
individuals do not receive PR awards in Russia, and therefore her emp layers' receipt of the awards should 
be considered comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h )( 4). 
2 
The chief executive officer of _________ where the Petitioner worked from 2013 to 
2015, stated that "Russian National awards in the field of PR ... are given to agencies/companies that 
implemented certain projects" and "can't be given to a specific person." The official stated that the 
Petitioner contributed significantly to the projects that won awards for I 
In denying the petition, the Director observed that the Petitioner did not personally receive the awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the claim that there are no individual PR awards in Russia, and that her 
employers' receipt of awards should therefore constitute comparable evidence. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence when a given 
criterion does not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation. But the burden is on the Petitioner to show 
that the criterion does not readily apply. We acknowledge the Petitioner's former employer's assertions, 
but the Petitioner has not submitted statements or information from officials of the awarding entities 
themselves to establish that the entities only give awards to organizations, and not to individuals. The 
Petitioner has also not established that her former employer is in a position to speak for those 
organizations. 
Also, the Petitioner must establish that the submitted evidence is comparable to the criteria described in 
the regulation. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Involvement in an award-winning 
project does not necessarily reflect the awarding entity's intention to recognize the work of an individual 
participant. The strongest evidence of that intention would generally come from the awarding entity itself, 
rather than an award recipient such as the Petitioner's former employer. The Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence or statements from the awarding entities to confirm that the Petitioner's contributions to the 
projects weighed significantly on the selection of the awardrecipients, such thattheawarding of the p1izes 
constituted recognition of the Petitioner's excellence in her field of endeavor. 
With regard to the selection process, we acknowled e a letter from l head of the 
Department of Public Relations in Business at University. I I indicated 
that he has served "as a Jury Member of the wards." He also statedthatthatthevarious awards 
"clearly demonstrate □ success and recognition of [the Petitioner's] outstanding PR work ... because she 
was the one who created, led, and managed the PR campaigns of the projects." But the Petitioner's 
employer did not win an award froml I Rather, the project was named as a finalist for such an 
award. I ldidnot claim to have served on juries for the other awarding entities, and therefore 
he has not established that he can directly attest to the other entities' selection processes. 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to satisfy the requirements of this criterion, orto establish 
that her evidence is comparable to what the regulation requires. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserted that she met this criterion through memberships in the Russian Public Relations 
Association (RASO) and the Global Women in PR (GWPR). On appeal, the Petitioner addresses only 
3 
her claimed RASO membership, and therefore we consider her claims regarding GWPR to be 
abandoned.1 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the vice president of RASO, stating that the Beneficiary's 
achievements qualified her for membership in the organization. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the Petitioner did not submit a copy of her 
membership certificate in RASO. The Director asked the Petitioner to submit "[t]he section of the 
association's constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership." 
In response, the Petitioner submitted another letter from RASO 's vice president, who asserted: "we only 
accept individuals who have distinguished themselves as the most extraordinary PR professionals among 
their peers. We invited [the Petitioner] to join our organization because she has distinguished herself 
among her peers." The reference to an invitation to join appears to conflict with the previous letter from 
this same official, indicating that the Petitioner filed an application to join RASO. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout from RASO's website, indicating that "the procedure for joining 
RASO" consists of filing an application f orm, to be considered by the executive committee. The 
submitted printout does not describe the minimum requirements for admission into membership. 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not submitted direct documentary evidence 
of her membership in RASO or the organization's membership requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout from RASO's website. Where a petitioner has had an 
opportunity to submit required evidence prior to the denial, we will generally not consider new evidence 
submitted on appeal that the Petitioner could have submitted in response to an RFE. 2 The RFE provided 
the Petitioner an opportunity to submit further evidence material to her claim of membership in RASO, 
and identified specific documents. The Petitioner neither submitted the requested documents nor 
explained their absence. Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry 
shall be groundsfordenyingthe petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that the printouts from RASO's website would have 
materially affected the outcome of the Director's decision. The printout does not mention any 
requirement for outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. Rather, "the procedure for 
joining RASO" consists of submitting an application form, "two detailed written recommendations from 
RASO members who are familiar with [the applicant's] professional experience," and "a 2-minute video 
message ... about [the applicant's] professional experience and the goals of joining the Association." 
The submitted letters from RASO officials do not address this publicly available information from the 
organization's own website or reconcile that information with their own claims of stricter membership 
requirements. 
1 See Matter olR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US.Atty Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were a bandonedas he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 SccMatterofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 764(BIA l 988)andMatterofObaigbcna, 19 I&NDec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
4 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted several articles about a bicycle ride and contest inl Ito promote the 
anniversary of a brand of cream cheese. These articles do not mention the Petitioner, but the Petitioner 
asserts that the articles are about her work in the field because she organized the event. The regulation, 
however, requires the published materials to be about the individual. The Petitioner's work in the field 
of public relations entails getting publicity for events that she is promoting, but that publicity is about the 
events in question, rather than about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field of PR. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted printoutsofarticles about various events organized while 
she was employed by the city of I These articles are not about the Petitioner, relating to 
her work in the field of public relations. Rather, most of the articles are press releases that the Petitioner 
wrote, or which name her as a contact. One article, about a then-upcoming! !celebration, included 
a two-sentence quotation from the Petitioner describing the previous year's event. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that some of the articles do not mention the Petitioner's name, and 
therefore are not about her. Other articles were written by, rather than about, the Petitioner. The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that "[ss Jome of the published materials ... do not mention the 
Beneficiary's name directly," but the Petitioner maintains that the absence of her name "does not 
necessarily mean that the material is not about the Beneficiary's work." The regulation,however, requires 
both that the published material relate to the Petitioner's work and that it be "about" her. Materials that 
do not identify the Petitioner do not fully satisfy these requirements. 
Also, the Petitioner has not shown that the articles are about the Petitioner's work in the field of PR The 
Petitioner contends: "The law does not require that press articles 'cover or discuss in detail' Beneficiaty's 
contributions to her field of endeavor." The regulation requires the published materials to be "about'' the 
Petitioner; a passing mention is not sufficient. According to guidance in the USCIS Policy Manual, the 
Petitioner and her work need not be the only subject of the published material; published material that 
covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of her work in the field and mentions her in 
connection to the work may be considered material "about" the Petitioner, relating to her work. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The submitted materials do not include a substantial 
discussion of the Petitioner's PR work. 
The Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
All of the Petitioner's documented employment experience has been in Russia, with her remunerntion 
paid in rubles þÿ ( ½  ) .  A letter from indicated that the Petitioner's "monthly income constituted" 
þÿ ½  8 0 , 0 0 0  in 2017, þÿ ½  1 0 5 , 0 0 0  in 2018, and þÿ ½  1 4 2 , 0 0 0  in 2019, plus þÿ ½  2 7 0 , 0 0 0  in "bonuses for the 
implementation of customer PR campaigns." The letter did not specify the timing of the bonus payments 
or itemize the amounts of individut payments. Also, the record does not specify other duties that 1he 
Petitioner may have performed fo in addition to those of a PR specialist, which might have 
affected the level of her compensation there. 
The Petitioner submitted translations of Russian-language online materials to establish a basis for 
comparison. An article fromSostav indicates that "the average PR specialist salary" inl in June 
2018 was P45,650permonth. A page from Trud indicates that, in 2019, the average monthly salary for 
a PR manager in I was þÿ ½  6 6 , 6 0 6 .  Another chart from Trud indicated that the monthly salary in 
I lwas þÿ ½  8 5 , 8 1 6 ,  butthe date forth at figure is not clear from the translation provided. The Petitioner 
did not submit full Russian-language printouts, but rather individual graphs and tables with translations 
of the data within those materials. 
In the RFE, the Director requested "independent objective documentary evidence," such as tax returns, 
to corroborate the salary figures in the letter from I The Director also requested further evidence 
to allow a comparison between the Petitioner's earnings and those of others in the field. 
Translated invoices show payments from to to the Petitioner totaling þÿ ½ 1,320,000 between March 
2016 and April 2018. 
Invoice Date Amount Annual Total 
2 March 17, 2016 þÿ ½  8 0 , 0 0 0  
3 April 17, 2016 120,000 þÿ ½  2 0 0 , 0 0 0  
6 June 30, 2017 270,000 
7 July 31, 2017 200,000 
8 August 21, 201 7 240,000 710,000 
1 February 19, 2018 140,000 
2 March 19, 2018 90,000 
3 April 30, 2018 180,000 410,000 
Total Pl,320,000 
The developer of a mobile phone app stated that her company paid IP140,000permonth from 
March to September 2019, for a total of þÿ ½  9 8 0 , 0 0 0 ,  to promote the product. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of job announcements for PR manager, specialist, and director positions 
inl and I showingmonthlysalariesrangingfromP45,000to þÿ ½  1 2 0 , 0 0 0 .  
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner had not submitted enough evidence to permit a 
comparison between the Petitioner's remunerntion and that of others in the field. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner correctly observes that the Director mistook the Petitioner's claimed monthly 
income for annual income, and that there is no specific requirement for the Petitioner to submit tax 
returns. Nevertheless, we agree with the Director's fundamental determination that the submitted 
evidence is insufficient to meet the regulatory requirements of the criterion. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that she "submitted copies of sixteen (16) monthly invoices for payments 
from her customers." We find only eight invoices in the record, along with English translations of those 
same eight documents. 
The annual totals on the submitted invoices, described above, are considerably lower than the annual 
amounts extrapolated from learlierletter: þÿ ½  9 6 0 , 0 0 0  in 2017 and þÿ ½  1 , 2 6 0 , 0 0 0  in 2018. The 
incomplete sequences of numbers indicate that some invoices were not submitted. The burden of pmof 
is on the Petitioner to fully document her remuneration and account for the difference between the 
amounts on the receipts and those inl I letter. 
The submitted copies of job announcements show monthly salaries, which are oflimited value when the 
record shows that the Petitioner does not receive a monthly salary. The Petitioner describes the in voices 
as "monthly," but this description implies regularly scheduled payments. The invoices show varying 
payments at irregular intervals on a per-project basis, with the Petitioner identified as the "Contractor" 
andl las the "Customer." The number 1 on the February 2018 invoice suggests thatl did 
not pay the Petitioner in January 2018. 
The Petitioner asserts that the mobile app developer discussed above paid the Petitioner þÿ ½  9 8 0 ,,000 in "total 
annual remunerntion for her PR services." The record does not document the payments. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that these payments were made directly to the Petitioner herself, as her own 
remuneration, insteadoff ees paid to which would have covered a number of expenses in addition 
to the Petitioner's own remuneration. 
There is no specific requirement that the Petitioner submit her income tax returns, but the fragmentary 
materials that the Petitioner submitted do not establish her total annual compensation for comparison 
against the submitted salary figures. The invoices show that the Petitioner receives varying rates of pay 
on a project-by-project basis, but the Petitioner has not provided data for others in the PR field who 
likewise are paid by project rather than a regular monthly salary. 
The submitted documentation provides an incomplete and inconsistent picture of the Petitioner's 
remuneration, and the comparative figures relate to fixed salaries rather than variable per-project 
compensation. Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof 
to meet the requirements of the criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria, pertaining 
to original contributions of major significance and leading or critical roles for organizations or 
7 
establishments with a distinguished reputation, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, 
we reserve those issues. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner has engaged in successful 
projects for some high-profile clients, but it does not show that this success has translated into 
individual recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international 
acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. HR 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act.4 Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to theverytop of the field of endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also MatterofL-A-C-, 26 I&NDec. 516,526 
n.7(BIA2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where anapplicantis otherwise ineligible). 
4 We note that, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted four job offer letters, all dated within days of each other 
in late September 2020. Three were from local businesses inl I a window-cleaning service, a skin care 
center, and a jewelry manufacturer. A fourth letter does not identify the company or provide any details a bout the nature 
of its business activity. The Petitioner has not established that offers of this kind are of a caliber indicative of sustained 
nationalorintemationalacclaimorhavingreached the very top of the field. 
8 