U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7376481 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 1, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an executive accountant and auditor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is the founder chairman resident chief accountant, and legal 
~entative of.__ _________________________ ___. a member of 
L__JGroup. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record reflects that 
the Petitioner served as a judge of the work of others, authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications, and performed in a leading or critical role. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled three criteria. Because the 
Petitioner has shown that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the 
context of the final merits determination below.1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence reflecting his educational background, trammg 
courses, and credentials. For instance, he received a junior college graduation certificate in accounting 
education from I !University of Finance and Economics in 1995. Moreover, he provided 
documentation of additional training courses, such as an enterprise management consulting business 
training class by the Chinese Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the National Institute in 
1995 and a training class for an independent director of a listed company by the Securities Association 
of China and School of Management o±1 !university in 2004. Further, he offered evidence of his 
professional qualifications and credentials, such as senior accountant in 2004, judicial appraiser in 
2009, and certified public accountant. 4 Currently, he serves as chairman, president, chief accountant, 
and legal representative of his own business,! I 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within his field, authored scholarly articles, and 
performed in a leading role. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements reflect 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting his participation in a 2010 judicial examination 
regarding illegal activity of a real estate company, a 2013 audit of a grain company, and a 2015 audit 
of a credit union. Furthermore, the record shows that the Petitioner served as the chief editor for the 
book, I t2005) and deputy editor for the book,.___ ______ .........., I I (2018). However, the Petitioner did not establish that these auditing and editing instances 
place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level ofexpe1tise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 Date omitted in documentation relating to certified public accountant accreditation. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
3 
not show, for example, how his auditing and editing experiences compare to others at the very top of 
the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his three auditing events, with his most recent 
occurring approximately 4 years ago, and his two editing occasions, happening 13 years apart, 
contribute to a finding that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 
at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that he 
garnered wide attention from the field based on his work as an auditor and editor. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted evidence of his appointments to the Chinese People's Political 
Consultative Conference in 2007, the Most Valuable Investment Area in Central China in 2010, and 
thel !Senior Accountant Review in 2010. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these 
appointments resulted in the judging of others. For instance, the Petitioner did not provide examples 
or other detailed information showing whom or what he judged, reviewed, or audited. Further, he did 
not establish that his associations with these organizations, approximately ten years ago, garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, fulfilling the job requirements of an auditor, participating as an editor, or serving on a 
judging committee does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and 
sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him 
apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a 
substantial number of high profile audits, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or 
publications, or chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown 
that his auditing experience places him among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 6 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner assisted in authoring three books. Specifically, the Petitioner authored a 
chapter for I I (2005), compiled I I (2011 ), and 
authored a section in a chapter for'----~----~~~------' (2018). In addition, the 
Petitioner authored two articles in 2011 ( Guide to Business and Entrepreneur World) and two articles 
in 2018 (China Journal of Commerce and China International Business). However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that this sporadic publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed 
work" and sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that his authorships reflect being among the small percentage at 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the 
significance of his involvement with three books and authorship of four articles or how his publications 
compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other accountants 
and auditors have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination 
stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
As it relates to his books, the Petitioner provided a letter froml I who broadly claimed that 
"[m]any public and private institutions have adopted [the Petitioner's] ideas, and his books have 
become part of university core curriculums." However, I I did not elaborate or offer specific 
detailed information supporting his assertions. The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that D I I has been utilized at I !University of Economics and Law. Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the usage of his book, in which he authored one chapter, at a single university rises to 
the level of acclaim required for this very high restrictive classification. In addition, although the 
Petitioner presented background information relating to the publication companies of the other two 
books, he did not show any attention he garnered from compiling the material and authoring a section 
of a chapter. 
Regarding his articles, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing that his China Journal of Commerce 
article has been downloaded 115 times and his Guide to Business article has been downloaded 244 
times and cited twice. 7 In addition, the Petitioner did not provide any evidence relating to the 
downloads or citations of his other two articles. While the downloads and citations, both individually 
and collectively, show that the field has noticed his work, he has not established that such downloads 
and citations sufficiently demonstrate a level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has 
not shown that the downloads or citations to his work represent attention at a level consistent with 
being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Furthermore, as it pertains tol I the Petitioner did not establish that his role at a single 
organization represents sustained national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. Moreover, while the Petitioner 
submitted reference letters, they did not show how his role resulted in widespread acclaim from his 
field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. Further, his reference letters made broad assertions without 
providing specific, detailed information establishing receipt of sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
7 The Petitioner also submitted evidence showing that his Guide to Business article "is part of collection of._l ____ ___, 
Library an~ !University Library." However, the Petitioner did not show the relevance or significance of the article's 
inclusion or how such evidence demonstrates that he has sustained national or international acclaim or places him among 
that small percentage at the very top of his field. 
5 
For instance, discussed the Petitioner's involvement in adjudicating cases of 
misappropriated funds, and~----~indicated the Petitioner's auditing and accounting projects. 
However, neither letter explained any attention he received from the overall field based on his role 
with I I Although the Petitioner performed in the expected role of founder, chairman, 
president, chief accountant, and legal representative of his own company, he did not show that he 
garnered national or international acclaim or how his role placed him among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria, nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner referenced four articles from 2005, 2012, 2013, and 2014. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that four published pieces, with the last occurring 
approximately five years ago, are consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the 
Petitioner did not show that his overall press coverage reflects a level of success consistent with being 
among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting reflects a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard . . . to present more extensive 
documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner provided recommended letters that summarized his work and 
contributions. The letters, however, do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show 
that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the Petitioner has made impactful or influential contributions in the 
greater field reflecting a "career of acclaimed work in the field," garnering the required sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For 
instance! I claimed that the Petitioner's "contribution enhanced the right of speech of certified 
public accountants in puqli.c.....a:ffars, greatly promoting the sound developmeµt..and...jmprovement of 
the CPA industry." Here,L__Jdid not explain how the Petitioner's work in L___Jprovince, China 
impacted the greater field in the CPA industry. Moreover, although the Petitioner referenced the media 
reports discussed above, as well as proposals, project completions, event participations, and awards, 
they confirm his contributions without showing how they rise to a level of major significance in the 
field and represent an individual who has garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation." See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
6 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 1, 2024 In Re: 30470554 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
IO initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Beneficiary received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director further concluded that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 10 criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, the Director acknowledged that the record satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi); however, the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), or (viii). The Petitioner did not specifically address 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vii), (ix) or (x) at the time offiling the Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petition for Alien Workers, or in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE); therefore, the 
Director did not address those criteria in either the RFE or the decision. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that, in addition to satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), and 
(viii). The Petitioner does not address the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) , (vii), or (x), thereby 
waiving those potential criteria. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) 
(citing Greenlaw v. U.S., 554 U.S. 237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). 
We adopt and affirm the Director's analysis of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), and 
(viii). See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 
230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has 
been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. 
INS, 87 F .3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may 
adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
The Director provided a detailed analysis of evidence submitted for each of the claimed criteria and 
discussed how the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate that the Petitioner met each criterion. 
For example, the Director thoroughly explained why the record does not establish the Petitioner has 
received a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his field of 
endeavor, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The Director specifically 
addressed how the record does not establish the specific details pertaining to the criteria for the award 
in question, whether other candidates were considered for the award, whether the basis for granting 
the award was excellence in the field of computer science, and similar information. The Director also 
noted that the Petitioner had not submitted documentary evidence of the award in question, nor an 
explanation for why that evidence was not offered. 
As another example, the Director explained why the record does not establish that materials about the 
Petitioner, relating to the Petitioner's work in the field for which classification is sought, have been 
published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as contemplated by the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director noted deficiencies ofthe publications in question, 
such as their lack of information regarding their source, their tendency to focus on the publication 
authors' own work or recent trends rather than being about the Petitioner and his work, and their focus 
on generalized information. 
As a final example, the Director explained why the record does not establish the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director 
acknowledged the Petitioner's work history; however, the Director noted that the Petitioner's work 
tended to be temporary in nature and his positioning within the various organizations was unexplained. 
The Director also noted that, regardless of whether the Petitioner may have performed in a leading or 
critical role, for many of the Petitioner's prior employers the record does not establish whether those 
organizations or establishments have a distinguished reputation, as required. 
The Director thoroughly analyzed the Petitioner's evidence and arguments and provided him with a 
compete decision reaching the correct conclusion. Based on our de novo review of the record before 
us, we conclude that the Petitioner does not provide sufficient evidence to overcome the Director's 
conclusions. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner references on appeal information in the record regarding his 
salary, apparently to request consideration of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), without 
specifically asserting that he may be eligible under that criterion. The Petitioner submits, for the first 
time on appeal, a document he describes as "a salary comparison with average salary in the state of 
Nebraska," to be considered with a copy of his employment contract, submitted at the time of filing, 
and a letter regarding a salary increase, submitted in response to the Director's RFE. 
2 
We need not-and we do not-accept this evidence submitted for the first time on appeal because the 
Petitioner was put on notice of the evidentiary requirement by regulation; the Petitioner was given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide the evidence in question both at the time of filing the Form 1-140, 
Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, and in response to the Director's RFE; and the evidence in 
question was reasonably available to the Petitioner both at the time of filing and in response to the 
RFE. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N 
Dec. 533 (BIA 1988); Matter ofOyeniran v. Holder, 672 F.3d 800, 808-09 (9th Cir. 2012). We note, 
however, that even if we were to accept the evidence submitted for the first time on appeal, the record 
would not establish that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In summation, the Petitioner has not established he received a one-time achievement or, in the 
alternative, evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and In1n1igration 
Services 
MATTER OF 1-0-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 2, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidence requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the appeal that followed, noting 
that the Petitioner had not identified any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the 
appeal. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen and reconsider, asserting that her brief did not 
arrive due to circumstances beyond her control. After a complete review of the Petitioner's 
arguments and evidence submitted, we denied the joint motion to reopen and reconsider, concluding 
that she had not established that she meets at least three criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and reconsider our previous decision. On motion, 
the Petitioner submits additional evidence pertaining to the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), asserting that she meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will deny the joint motion to reopen and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability. The 
term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). A petitioner can demonstrate a 
one-time achievement (that is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 
1 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of I-O-, ID# 13843 39 (AAO Jul. 31, 2018). 
Matter of 1-0-
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three 
criteria, we will determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are 
located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
11. ANALYSIS 
A Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion to reconsider must be supported by a pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or 
regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or 
Department of Homeland Security policy. The Petitioner does not contend that our previous 
decision was based on an incorrect application of USCIS law or policy as required for a motion to 
reconsider. Therefore, this motion is denied. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner has submitted documentary evidence that was not submitted 
previously, which we will discuss below. 
2 
.
Matter of 1-0-
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a dancer and choreographer. As she has not established that 
she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In our previous decision, we denied the motion to reopen, 
holding that the evidence submitted did not demonstrate that the Petitioner met three criteria as 
required. Specifically, we held that the Petitioner satisfied the judging and display criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii) but that she did not meet the requirements of the criteria for 
awards or published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). Here, the Petitioner submits 
additional evidence pertaining to the awards criterion. 2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion for awards received as a member of the 
dance group First, she claims that her 2003 performance with this group at the 
in Syria meets these requirements. She states that her plaque from this event was for 
participation because "there is no competition for first, or second or third place, or anything of the 
like." Instead, the Petitioner asserts that performing alone at the historic amphitheater 
represents recognition of excellence. However, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires 
receipt of actual prizes or awards for excellence in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion based upon her participation in the 
Next, the Petitioner claims that she meets this criterion for receiving the grand prize in the category 
of dance at the 
in 2005. She submits the translation of a certificate from this 
competition with a copy of the original certificate, indicating that the "Grand Prize in the category of 
dance" was awarded to the children's ensemble Although counsel states that 
"[t]he prize is nationally recognized," the assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 
503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record with independent 
evidence. Here, the Petitioner submits a document that appears to be written by 
Director of the show agency, about the in 2005.3 While it 
claims that the competition is the largest and most famous in the Ukraine, the record lacks evidence 
corroborating that assertion, such as media coverage. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that the award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
In addition, the document from 
given to the winners of the provides conflicting information about the awards 
It states that this contest includes three 
2 The Petitioner also claims that she was a victim of notario fraud in that an individual holding himself out to be an 
attorney, but who is not actually licensed to practice law, had previously advised her regarding the instant petition. 
3 Near the end of this document, it states, "[i]nformation is provided by , Director of the 
show agency." We further note that this original letter is a blurred photocopy, which does not comply with 
8 C.F .R. § 204.S(g)(l) (requiring ordinary legible photocopies). 
3 
.
Matter of 1-0-
phases, a general qualifying round, final round, and the final gala concert in which "[t]he winners of 
the competition are awarded with gold, silver and bronze medals." However, the Petitioner claims to 
have received a "Grand Prize" from this competition, an award which does not 
identify. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). The 
inconsistent evidence in the record does not establish the Petitioner's receipt of an award for 
excellence from the competition. 
The Petitioner also claims to meet this criterion for the competition in 1998, which 
she states is a Ukrainian television children's competition. In a document signed by 
the founder and general producer of the competition, He states that this 
is "not just a competition, but a search for new talents, incredible performances, unexpected images, 
interesting meetings, positive emotions and new acquaintances," adding that it is "a great 
opportunity to take the first steps on the professional stage." Further on, states, "[t]he 
winners of the competition receive an exclusive award -the highest award of the 
He ultimately concludes, "[t]he winner of 
the competition in the nomination 'Choreography,' the winner of the in 1998 
We note that this is a Ukrainian 
television competition that provides opportunities for children to gain exposure for their talents, but 
the record does not provide sufficient evidence to establish that the award the Petitioner's ensemble 
won constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also contends that a diploma received by the ensemble at the 
n 2008 establishes her eligibility. She submits a document prepared by 
the producer of the festival In this document, she appears 
to cite a link about this festival from Facebook which states, "[t]he largest annual festival was 
founded in 2007 and about 60 collectives take part in it." This document states that the purposes of 
the festival include the "development of amateur and choreographic art," "attracting the general 
public and creative intelligentsia to the activities of cultural and education institutions and amateur 
collectives." The document identifies the jury of the festival as "the leading figures of culture and 
arts, highly qualified specialists in the field of folk and modern choreography, heads of professional 
choreographic groups, art critics, specialists in the genre of choreography." In discussing the 
winners of the 2008 master class the document states, "Diploma of the I stage at 
the nomination 'Folk dance,' the age category of 10-13 years is given to the exemplary ensemble 
The Petitioner has not established that this diploma represents an award or 
that it is for excellence in the field. Thus, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that this represents a 
nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, and she has not established 
that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The motion to reconsider is denied as the Petitioner has not asserted that our prior decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The motion to reopen is denied because the 
4 
Matter of 1-0-
evidence the Petitioner has submitted does not constitute the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
The motions will be denied for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of 1-0-, ID# 2216923 (AAO Apr. 2, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-D-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 2, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of M-D-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a fashion model for in New 
York, New York. As the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following two criteria: published material under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The record reflects that 
major media featured the Petitioner in their publications and she commands a high salary in her field. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the published material and high 
salary criteria. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has displayed her work at various fashion shows and 
exhibits satisfying the artistic display criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Therefore , the 
Petitioner established that she fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality 
of the evidence in the context of the finial merits determination below. 
2 
.
Matter of M-D-
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has walked hundreds of runways, including the top four 
international fashion week events in and for top designers, such as 
and Further, she has participated in advertising 
campaigns for prestigious brands, such as ___ and For instance, 
casting director for confirmed that the Petitioner was selected "year after year 
since 2013 for our runway shows." In addition, image and advertising campaign 
manager for indicated the Petitioner's modeling of the company's brands for three 
years. For these reasons, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has achieved a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Moreover, the Petitioner has been featured in major publications, such as Time, Vogue, Elle, and 
Glamour. In fact, New York Magazine named the Petitioner as one of the "Top Models" where she 
opened for In addition, the Petitioner has appeared on the covers of major 
magazines, such as and . Accordingly, the Petitioner has established 
the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The demand for the Petitioner's work has resulted in her commanding a high salary placing her among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Indeed, Elle magazine 
wrote that the Petitioner has "conquered the catwalk" and "has been one of the most booked models 
ever since." As further evidence of her status in the field, the record contains recommendation letters 
setting her significantly apart from other fashion models. For example, Belgian fashion designer 
stated that the Petitioner "is a 'household' name among fashion industry leaders and is 
known to be one of the top models in the international field," and she "enjoys the greatest level of 
commendation and achievement in the fashion arena." 
In summary , the Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a fashion model. The totality 
of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that 
she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has documented 
sustained international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) , (3); 
1 See also users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that users officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
Matter of M-D-
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 956 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained 
national and international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that she intends to continue working in her area of 
expertise and that she will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner 
bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § l36l;Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&NDec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden 
has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofM-D-, ID# 2590356 (AAO Apr. 2, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 2, 2024 In Re: 28963434 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a computer scientist specializing in medical imaging and computer vision who seeks 
classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a foreign bachelor's degree in engineering, a master's degree in statistics, and 
froml Ia Ph.D. in computer science. He specializes in machine and deep 
learning models relating to medical post-processing imaging in computer vision. The goal in this work 
is to divide an image into different meaningful and distinguishable regions or objects, then to offer 
quantitative analysis of those images. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met three ofthe regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met the requirements for two ofthe criteria relating to judging 
and the authorship of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the criterion associated with 
original contributions of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to contributions. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude he has not satisfied the contributions criterion, meaning he has not met the required three 
evidentiary criteria to warrant a final merits analysis. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner provided several forms ofevidence relating to his citation record and his findings within 
that work, and several letters of support from others in his field. The Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 ( citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
2 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
We agree that the Petitioner is accomplished and some of his work has garnered several citations. 
However, beyond offering accurate and reliable research that others in the field rely on in their own 
work, what the Petitioner does not present is the next step required here in showing how those citation 
rates have been of major significance in the broader field. Where he falls short is the Petitioner does 
not parlay his citation record into a discemable significant impact in the field as a whole. 
Generally, it is not enough to satisfy this criterion's requirements for this Petitioner to compare his 
entire publication citation totals to a group of researchers that he characterizes as "extraordinary" or 
"the most well-respected contributors to the field." As the Director noted in the denial, comparing 
overall citation rates of individuals is more appropriate to the final merits determination, where it can 
serve as a metric of acclaim and renown within the field. The Petitioner focuses on his total number 
of citations comparing that recognition to other researchers in his field. A more apt metric under this 
criterion would be comparing citations to one of the Petitioner's individual published articles (as 
opposed to all of his work) with other researchers' single published papers in his specialized field. 
We view a comparison ofcitations to individual scientific articles to be more relevant for this criterion 
to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual B.1, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing that "published research 
that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others working in the field, and 
documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in that field, may be probative of 
the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor"). We note agency policy here 
does not reference the entire body of work of other researchers compared with a petitioner's body of 
work as he advances in this petition. Rather, users policy focuses on whether a petitioner's 
individual published article is highly cited relative to other researcher's individual work in the field. 
We also note the Petitioner relied on evidence originating from OpenAlex in support ofhis comparison 
to other researchers. The appeal brief reflects the following: 
He also presented quantitative data from OpenAlex that compares his research impact 
to the respective research impacts of others in his field []. As a reminder, OpenAlex 
data contextualizes [the Petitioner's] place at the forefront of this field in ways that 
Google Scholar cannot, and it establishes that [his] publication and citation rates place 
him among the top 0.14% of researchers in the computer science field in terms of 
citation impact []. This evidence extends far beyond average citation rates for the 
category of Computer Science, indicating that users has failed to evaluate all of the 
relevant evidence of record. 
Later in the appeal brief, the Petitioner claims his citation record positions him at the top of his field 
again relying on data from "OpenAlex, which indicates that [his] citation record places him among 
the top 0.11 % ofresearchers in the computer science field in terms of citation impact." The graphical 
3 
image the Petitioner presented to support this figure indicates these statistics relate to an "In-Field 
Author Citation Impact for Publications between 2015 and 2023." 
We find several issues diminishing the evidentiary value of the Petitioner's claims stemming from the 
material from OpenAlex. Setting aside the slightly conflicting statistics ( .14 versus .11 ), the evidence 
the Petitioner offered in the record from OpenAlex is undated, and considering his own graph, the 
statistics included his work through some unknown point in 2023. This postdates the petition filing 
date in 2022 and because he must demonstrate eligibility based on the facts as they existed on the date 
he filed the petition, this material from OpenAlex is significantly diminished. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) 
(requiring petitioners to establish they have satisfied all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit from the time of the petition filing). 
More importantly, because of the evidentiary shortcomings with this material, we attempted to 
reproduce the Petitioner's results on OpenAlex, but we were unable to do so. Also, the material the 
Petitioner submitted reflected he crafted the search to focus on computer science as the field, and this 
factor is corroborated in his appellate statement we quote above. But OpenAlex has additional tools 
to further specify a researcher's area of expertise, and it contains one that appears to directly align 
with the Petitioner's area, "Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition." The Petitioner did not explain 
why he specified a search parameter in OpenAlex that was different than his specialty, and it is unclear 
how that shift in terminology might have affected the search results in this online database. 
Related to those differing parameters, the Petitioner did not show how OpenAlex calculates the 
percentile figures he provided. While we do not imply that the Petitioner here has manipulated the 
data in his favor, the failure to essentially "show the work" of how OpenAlex calculates its results 
leaves open that possibility, and doing so falls short of the Petitioner satisfying his burden of proof 
when relying on this material. All of these factors further reduce the reliability of the material from 
OpenAlex and it will not serve to demonstrate he has satisfied this criterion's requirements. 
We now tum to the letters the Petitioner provided, each of which should describe how his efforts have 
effected a significant impact in the field as a whole. The first support letter is from I I I IProfessor of Cognitive Science and Computer Science atl I I I Professor I I described the Petitioner's work in the early detection of pancreatic 
tumors. He portrayed the unique method the Petitioner utilized along with its effectiveness. Professor 
_ _.lcharacterized this work as a step forward for medical imaging that has a variety of applications. 
He indicated the Petitioner's 3D course-to-fine segmentation method has improved the field's ability 
to efficiently determine the probability of pancreatic cancer in abdominal CT scans. However, 
Professor I did not offer additional information speaking to the extent that this method has 
improved the field's ability to accurately recognize cancer in CT scans. 
He also discussed the Petitioner's work assessing lymph nodes status, concluding that when his system 
was evaluated on a data set of esophageal cancer patients, the system demonstrated a high rate of 
effectiveness. But the professor still did not offer an indication of how this has impacted the field; 
only that the Petitioner's methods have been successful and an improvement. Professor I !closed 
his letter noting researchers are recognizing the originality of the Petitioner's research and are taking 
notice, that his work is of interest to a variety of researchers, and that his research is wholly original. 
He also noted the Petitioner's overall record demonstrates his ability to produce credible and relevant 
4 
research for the United States and for the computer science field. But still lacking was an explanation 
reflecting the Petitioner has contributed to the field at a level commensurate with this criterion's 
requirements. 
Next, ___________________ Research Scientist for _____ 
in Canada described some of the Petitioner's work, noting its success and effectiveness, and claiming 
it has been hi hi valuable and that other researchers find the Petitioner's findings trnstworthy and 
accurate. sto ed short of explaining how the Petitioner's work has actually impacted the 
field. Similarly, _____ a research scientist at I I explained the Petitioner's 
methodology of pancreatic cancer early detection is vital to the United States and that he is uniquely 
positioned to benefit the entire medical community.I I continued that the Petitioner's research 
is proven to have wide applications in a variety of medical imaging, not just pancreatic cancer. But 
much like the above letters,! I did not offer details of how the Petitioner has already spawned 
a significant impact within the field as a whole. 
In a similar vein,I I Adjunct Professor at of Science and Technology 
described the Petitioner's work as the cutting edge of developing accurate 3D shape retrieval, as well 
as beneficial to a variety of sectors. But simply being on the cutting edge, without some discernible 
and significant impact in the field, is premature when it comes to this criterion's mandates. 
Responding to the RFE, the Petitioner provided additional letters. The first from I I a 
physician at the I _Hospital in Taiwan who claimed two of his projects relied on 
the Petitioner's published work, and that his contributions to the advancement ofmedical imaging and 
radiation therapy technology have had a major influence on head and neck and esophageal cancer. 
But I Idid not further describe the manner or extent to which those contributions have already 
influenced the field. While I I indicated the Petitioner's automatic segmentation algorithms for 
organs at risk are currently being integrated into the PACS system of a private company, he did not 
explain what the acronym P ACS represents, but more importantly, the record lacks an indication of 
how this has impacted the broader field. I lthen described some of the Petitioner's work as 
pioneering and he claimed it had delivered significant performance improvements, but still no 
information of how the field has been affected. 
Lastly, is the letter froml lof the 
described how the Petitioner's software has been successfully implemented in the radiation treatment 
planning system at his hospital. He indicated the Petitioner's software and algorithm have enabled his 
hospital to accurately delineate lymph node growth tumor volumes and organs at risk, leading to more 
precise and effective treatment plans for their patients. While I Istates the Petitioner's technology 
has garnered attention from top medical technology companies, we note the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence showing his work has been sufficiently incorporated by additional medical facilities such 
that it demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field as a whole. 
In short, we have no doubt that the Petitioner is an accomplished researcher who has made original 
discoveries with the potential to have the type of impact in his field that would allow him to meet this 
criterion's mandates. But the evidence does not lead us to the conclusion that the required impact has 
already been achieved. The record does not include adequate corroborating documentation to 
demonstrate the nature of the contributions the Petitioner has made to the field that are of major 
5 
significance. We agree with the Director's ultimate conclusion that the Petitioner has not submitted 
adequate evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-T-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 3, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of 
anesthesiology. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets two other criteria, relating to making original 
contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and performing in a leading 
and critical role, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). He maintains that he qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-T-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204. 5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is an anesthesiologist who has trammg in adult neurosurgical 
anesthesiology and pediatric neuroanesthesiology, and is qualified to conduct intraoperative 
neurophysiological monitoring. The record shows that he has a doctor of medicine degree and a degree 
of bachelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery. His resume states that he has worked as a professor 
of anesthesiology in India, a staff fellow physician anesthesiologist at the 
and ____ as well as a medical director for 
, a subsidiary of 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented documentation from the Journal of 
Anaesthesiology Clinical Pharmacology and the Journal of Obstetric Anaesthesia and Critical Care, 
professional publications, confirming that he served as their reviewer and reviewed manuscripts 
between 2006 and 2017. In addition, the record confirms that he has authored scholarly articles that 
are published in professional journals, including 
that appeared in the Journal of Anaesthesiology Clinical Pharmacology , and 
that appeared in the Indian Journal 
of Urology. While the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), 
2 
.
Matter of A-T-
as we will explain below, he has not met the initial evidence requirements of satisfying at least three 
criteria. 1 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of anesthesiology. Major significance in the 
field may be shown through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have 
been widely accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced 
the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual ( AFM) Chapter 22. 2, AFM Update AD 11-14 8-9 (Dec. 
22, 20 I 0), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-l 40-evidence-pm-
6002-005-l. pdf. 
The record is insufficient to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, 2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets 
this criterion because his articles have appeared in "some of the most prestigious journals in the field"; 
other scientists have cited to and relied on his findings; the 
has referenced his research in its guidance to medical professionals; he has 
collaborated with to develop monitoring software, and the field of 
anesthesiology has shown interest in his ___ device. 
The Petitioner's written work and citation frequency are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
According to a statement he initially submitted in support of the petition, he has "published about 50 
peer-reviewed publications that include original research manuscripts, review articles, case reports 
and peer-reviewed abstracts" and that his articles have appeared in "some top-ranking journals." 
Evidence of publication in respectable journals and presentation in reputable forums shows that the 
Petitioner has shared his research. To satisfy this criterion, he must establish that the reaction from 
the field upon the dissemination of his work confirms that the value of his research rises to the level 
of "contributions of major significance" in the field, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner asserts that his citation frequency establishes that he meets this criterion. He offers 
documents from Clarivate Analytics, listing "baselines-citation rates" for clinical medicine. He, 
however, has not explained how citation information about clinical medicine relates to his 
contributions in anesthesiology , the field in which he claims extraordinary ability. Similarly, the 
record includes documents relating to citation percentile in the research area of "anesthesia , intensive 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate , that he has received a major, internationa lly 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 lf a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigrat ion Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4. 
3 
.
Matter of A-T-
care medicine, medicine, surgery," but they do not specifically list information about his contributions 
in the field of anesthesiology. 
Regardless, the Petitioner has not shown that the number of citations his work has garnered confirms 
his research qualifies as contributions of major significance in the field. On appeal, he submits a 
Google Scholar printout, indicating that his most cited article, published in 2013, received 7 4 citations, 
and his second most cited article, published in 2002, received 39 citations. 3 The printout reveals that 
many of his articles have not garnered any citation. According to a letter from the editor­
in-chief of , the Petitioner's 2013 article was the 
journal's second most cited article. The evidence shows that the journal's h5-index and h5-median, 
which relate to its standing in the field, are relatively low as compared to the top ten publications in 
anesthesiology. Evidence regarding the Petitioner's citation rate does not confirm that his articles 
"have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries 
(particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field." 
USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
Although the Petitioner has submitted some examples of other scientists citing to and relying on his 
research, he has not demonstrated that his articles have been cited as authoritative in the field or have 
influenced the field in a significant way. He offers incomplete copies of articles that cite to his studies, 
but these documents reference his work among many other studies, and do not include an in-depth 
discussion about his research. For example, the 2017 article 
' cites one of his articles among at least 108 other sources, and the 
2016 article 
cites his work among at least 52 studies. The Petitioner has not shown that his findings are 
authoritative or have otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's research on fatigue in anesthesia 
practice qualifies as contributions of major significance in the field. He has submitted an 
document entitled This document cites 
two of the Petitioner's articles, among 47 studies, to support the proposition that "[t]he consequences 
of fatigue have serious implications for patient safety and the overall wellness of anesthesia 
professionals." It advises that"[ m ]anaging fatigue has the potential to improve the quality of patient 
care and outcomes to spur excellence in clinical and professional practice." The Petitioner has not 
established that references to his research in the document or other articles are indicative of 
his work's significant impact in the field. Rather, these publications acknowledge that his studies have 
added to the general pool of knowledge, which, without evidence of significant influence in the field, 
is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Furthermore , while the record shows that the Petitioner was involved with inventing 
which, according to a consultant anesthetist at the . 
is "a fluid delivery system ... that reduces harmful effects by preventing the medical 
errors from occurring ," he has not shown that has been widely used in the field. 
a professor in the Department of Anesthesiology in the __________ at 
3 According to an article " " which the Petitioner offers on appeal, the citation frequency 
referenced in Google Scholar might include citations in non-scholarly writings. 
4 
.
Matter of A-T-
states that -"represent[ s] the categories of drugs most commonly used 
in anesthesia: 
drugs." explains that the "product contains seven syringe ports" that 
"interlock with only one designated syringe," which "allows the medical provider to assure that the 
syringe contains the correct drug and is correctly administered intravenously." The Petitioner, 
however, has not presented evidence verifying that his invention has been widely used in the field. 
Rather, according to two 2017 email correspondence in the record, researchers could not confirm if 
had ever been tested or used in a clinical setting. The evidence therefore does not establish 
that his invention constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. 
While the record includes an unsigned agreement between 
and the Petitioner, it does not show that he is "collaborat[ing] with a major American 
company, regarding the development of next-generation monitoring software for 
patients under anesthesia," as he has claimed in the appellate brief The unsigned agreement specifies 
the rights and obligations of the parties regarding the use of data communication 
protocols for the exchange of data between products and third party medical equipment. 
It does not discuss the Petitioner's work or impact in the field of anesthesiology. 
Finally, the reference letters in the record similarly are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).4 
Some of these letters discuss in detail the nature of the Petitioner's work, claiming he has advanced 
the field. For example, the record includes letters from , a professor of anesthesiology 
in the School of Medicine at the in New Zealand; a professor in 
the Department of Neurosurgery at the and 
, a professor of women's health at the These letters 
state that other scientists have cited to and relied on the Petitioner's work. The letters, however, are 
insufficient to confirm that his impact or influence in the field has risen to the level of "major 
significance." See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting 
to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion). The Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his work -which may have resulted in incremental advancements in the 
field, as such are expected in any original research -qualifies as contributions of major significance 
in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 ("Letters that lack 
specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion."). 
The above and other letters not specifically discussed, as well as other evidence in the record, show 
that the Petitioner's work has added to the general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, however, 
insufficient to confirm widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the field of 
anesthesiology has regarded his research as authoritative. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not sufficiently 
explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F. 3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1122 (9th Cir. 2010). Based on the evidence in the record, the Petitioner 
4 While not every letter in the record is discussed, all were considered in reaching our conclusion. 
5 
.
Matter of A-T-
has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field of anesthesiology. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on the work he has performed 
for his employer, 5 For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or 
was a leader. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. If the petitioner claims 
to have performed a critical role, he or she must establish that the role is or was of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be 
considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is 
not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether 
the role is or was critical. Id 
According to an August 2018 letter from the Petitioner serves as the medical 
director for . a subsidiary of The letter describes his duties and work 
for ___ and sufficiently shows that he performs a leading and critical role for his employer. 
The record, however, is insufficient to demonstrate that qualifies as an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
According to a 2018 Tech Journal Hub article, and approximately 20 other 
companies are "top players" in the global intraoperative market. A 2015 
NFIB article calls one of "the top five companies in the nation in their field." 
claims that is its most productive subsidiary and is affiliated with more than 50 
hospitals. The record includes a list oflocations where offers its services, and a document 
showing that the awarded contracts to While these documents 
verify that is active in the market, they are insufficient to establish that it has a 
distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not pointed to any legal authority to support a position 
that "distinguished reputation" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) can be shown through a company's 
size and clients. 
The Petitioner has also submitted an article posted on the website, 
noting that and other companies donated to a surgical mission trip to India. The Petitioner, 
however, has not demonstrated that this information, which relates to the company's one act of 
generosity, is sufficient to confirm that his employer has a "distinguished reputation." In light of the 
above, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion because he has not presented "[e]vidence that [he] 
has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. " See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
5 While the record appears to show that the Petitioner works for in addition to its subsidiary, 
in his appellate brief, he has not alleged that he performs in a leading or critical role for ____ We will 
therefore focus our discussion on his role for 
Matter of A-T-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § l36l;MatterofSkirballCulturalCtr., 25 I&NDec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met." 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-T-, ID# 2607377 (AAO Apr. 3, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-0-0-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 3, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a model, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Petitioner's Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petitioner Alien Worker. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal 1 and subsequently denied a motion to 
reopen. 2 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. Upon review, we will deny the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). Where a petitioner submits qualifying evidence under at least three criteria, we 
will then determine whether the totality of the record shows sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 3 
1 See Matter of J-O-O-, ID# 868229 (AAO Jan. 26, 2018). 
2 See Matter of J-O-O-, ID# 1482034 (AAO Sept. 5, 2018) 
3 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first 
counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative 
.
Matter of J-0-0-
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements of a 
motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
11. PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
The Director denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidentiary criteria 
applicable to individuals of extraordinary ability, either a major, internationally recognized award or 
at least three of ten possible forms of documentation. Specifically, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not meet any of the criteria. We then dismissed the Petitioner's appeal, concluding that 
she only fulfilled the criterion for judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Subsequently, we denied the 
Petitioner's motion to reopen, determining that her additional evidence did not establish that she 
achieved any additional criteria. 
In the current motion to reconsider, the Petitioner references the Director's decision made in a prior 
petition filing, as well as the Director's request for evidence (RFE) issued in the most recent filing. 
Thus, the Petitioner argues that she meets two additional criteria. 
III. ANALYSIS 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the required statement about whether or not the validity of 
the unfavorable decision has been, or is, the subject of any judicial proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). Moreover, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider 
does not establish that we erred in our prior decision. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, a motion to reconsider must be supported 
by a pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement of U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services or Department of Homeland Security. 
The Petitioner contends that the Director previously determined in denying her first petition 
that she satisfied the awards criterion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i).4 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that in the RFE for her current petition, the Director indicated that 
she fulfilled the published material criterion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner claims that she meets three of the evidentiary criteria. 
value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the 
fact to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
4 The Director stated that the Petitioner "has provided sufficient documentation " to meet the awards criterion without 
identifying the documentation or indicating which award(s) fulfilled the criterion. 
5 The Director indicated that "[t]his criterion has been met" for published material without providing any further 
explanation or justification. 
2 
Matter of J-0-0-
In regards to her prior petition, the scope of the Petitioner's eligibility is limited to the record of 
proceedings regarding only this petition. Further, statements or determinations by a director in an 
RFE do not constitute a final or official decision. In fact, the Director issued a decision explaining 
why her evidence did not meet the evidentiary criteria, including the awards and published material 
criteria. In addition, we are not bound by decisions of a service center or district director. See La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). Finally, we 
conducted a de nova review of the record regarding the Petitioner's appeal and evaluated her evidence 
in her motion to reopen. In both instances, we thoroughly analyzed the evidence and explained why 
her documentation did not satisfy the awards and published material criteria. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in finding that she fulfilled only one criterion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that our previous decision was incorrect based on the record before us. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S. C. § 13 61; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N 
Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
Cite as Matter of J-0-0-, ID# 2675726 (AAO Apr. 3, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 26505739 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 03, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agricultural teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. We dismissed the 
subsequent appeal, explaining that the Petitioner's evidence did not establish his eligibility for the 
requested classification. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the applicant has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, an applicant must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission 
of a properly completed Form I 290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The 
issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant reopening or has 
established that our decision to dismiss the prior appeal was based on an incorrect application of law 
or USCIS policy. We therefore incorporate our prior decision by reference and will repeat only certain 
facts and evidence as necessary to address the Petitioner's claims on motion. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
As the Petitioner does not claim on motion that our prior decision contained an error of law or policy, 
it cannot meet the fundamental requirements of a motion to reconsider, and it must be dismissed. On 
motion, the Petitioner provides a table listing the evidence and arguments he asserts establish his 
eligibility under various criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The table contains additional bulleted 
information for consideration under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), relating to a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. In his prior 
appeal, he provided a nearly identical table and as such, these bulleted items appear to be the only 
difference between the table on motion and the table submitted on appeal. The Petitioner cannot meet 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with our conclusions; the motion 
must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56, 
58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). 
Here, the Petitioner does not identify any specific error of law or policy in our prior decision. Rather, 
he requests a general reconsideration of his eligibility, which is insufficient to meet the requirements 
of a motion per 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The Petitioner adds bulleted information about his role as a "Scientist III" at Duniversity and 
states that his "salary is in the upper 90% of the salary offered for a Soil and Plant Scientist in the I I area as per the Bureau of Labor Statistics [(BLS)]." To evidence his salary, the Petitioner 
relies upon an offer letter dated December 2022; however, this cannot serve as evidence that would 
establish eligibility at the time he filed his initial petition in June 2021. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). USCIS 
regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit sought at the time 
the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1). A visa petition may not be approved based on 
speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. See 
Matter of Michelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N Dec. 248,249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). 
Even if we considered the University job offer as evidence that could establish eligibility at the 
time of filing, the Petitioner's statement that his "salary is in the upper 90% ... for a Soil and Plant 
Scientist ... " would not establish eligibility under the salary criterion. The Petitioner has not offered 
sufficient evidence to establish that his job as either a "vocational agricultural teacher" or a "Scientist 
III" is the same as a soil and plant scientist. Even if this were established, it would not be sufficient, 
as the Petitioner merely asserts this statistic without offering corroborating evidence of it for our 
review. Finally, even if we found that he works as a soil and plant scientist and his salary is in the 
upper 90%, this would still be insufficient to establish eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner 
2 
has not explained how a salary in the "upper 90%" for the area" is high in relation to others 
in the field overall.1 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that our prior decision contained errors of law 
or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the record at the time of that decision. Therefore, 
the motion does not meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and it must be dismissed. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner presents no new or additional evidence on motion. Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening the proceedings. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the evidence provided in support of the motion to reopen does not overcome 
the grounds underlying our prior decision, and the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Therefore, the 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
1 In addition, a salary in the upper 90% would not necessarily support a finding that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 03, 2024 In Re: 30233212 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a videographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IL ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a videographer who has worked on camera crews for many productions, including 
for a major motion picture and for television and streaming series with a major production company. 
The Petitioner is a graduate of a directing program at I Iand 
intends to continue her work in the United States in the field of television and film production. 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the Beneficiary of an approved 
O-lB petition. Although USCIS has approved at least one O-IB nonimrnigrant visa petition filed on 
behalf of the Petitioner , this prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations , and case law. The nonirnrnigrant 
and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the 
arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimrnigrant 0-1 B category means distinction. 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii) . But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) ­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the criteria she claimed to have satisfied: 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record 
supports this determination. The Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not establish 
that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (vii), or (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she meets three of these criteria, and she contends that the Director disregarded certain 
evidence and made significant factual errors in reviewing it, including making assertions that are 
contrary to the evidence submitted. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vii). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor . 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the Director's analysis of her eligibility under this criterion. 
An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
2 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner has submitted articles showing that she has been interviewed and her work has been 
discussed in at least one major trade publication , ICG Magazine, which discusses the Petitioner's 
transition from China and her work on several productions. We note that, in denying the petition, the 
Director did not acknowledge evidence submitted regarding ICG Magazine, stating only that evidence 
did not establish that it is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Information 
from the publisher and from California State University's Entertainment Alliance provide details 
concerning the magazine's significance to the film and television industries. As such, we consider 
this magazine to be a major trade publication. 
Covering similar material, the record includes an article in World Journal, a Chinese language 
newspaper published in North America. While the record includes documentation concerning the 
newspaper's history and distribution, we take administrative notice that open-source searches 
demonstrate that the newspaper is one ofthe largest Chinese language newspapers in the United States 
with independent operations in several major cities in North America and worldwide circulation . As 
such, we consider this publication to constitute major media. The article discusses the Petitioner's 
family's history working as directors; her own work in television, streaming, and film; and the 
screening of her work at several film festivals. In denying the petition, the Director characterized 
World Journal-without explanation -as a "web portal" that is "open to user-created and marketing 
content." The record initially included the printed article and certified translation which both depicted 
a link to the story at the publication's website. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director pointed 
out that the link was not functional and, as such, the article could not be verified. In response the RFE, 
the Petitioner submitted the same article as printed from a separate link on the publication's website, 
stating that this was the "updated" link to the article. The Petitioner also submitted the same certificate 
of translation showing the original translation date and the original link. The Director dismissed the 
evidence as having "no probative value for this proceeding," alleging that the article had been deleted 
and revised. Upon review, the foreign-language articles appear identical in content; the main 
difference is that the order of photos of the Petitioner has changed slightly. We see no reason to 
question the credibility of this article. The evidence of record meets the plain language of this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner asserts that independent film projects that she has written and directed have been 
exhibited at several film festivals. The record includes documentation about these festivals and lists 
the films included, as well as email messages informing the Petitioner of the festivals' intent to screen 
her films. The record also contains numerous letters from managers in the industry who have worked 
with the Petitioner attesting to the inclusion of her work in these festivals. The evidence of record 
meets the plain language of this criterion. 
We note that, in denying the petition, the Director appears to argue that the Petitioner's various titles 
of "videographer," "lst assistant camera," and "focus puller" are not artistic in nature and therefore 
disqualify her from meeting this criterion; the Director states, "You are not a cinematographer; you 
3 
are a videographer, which is not an artist." Contrary to evidence in the record explaining both the 
technical and artistic nature of a videographer's role-as well as the roles of others on production 
sets-the Director implies that the Petitioner has conflated cinematographers and videographers in 
order to demonstrate the artistic nature of her work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner explicitly disagrees with the Director's characterization, challenging it as, 
"at best, a clear misunderstanding" of the titles and evidence as presented and, "at worst ... a clear 
mistake of fact." The evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner claimed to be a 
cinematographer; conversely, the record includes expert opinion letters and independent 
documentation describing various roles related to the intricacies of television and film production­
including the fact that production participants may take on multiple roles regardless of title and that 
titles may have different meanings depending on the project. The record shows that the Petitioner has 
worked in production roles working as a focus puller, overseeing camera crews, and writing and 
directing independently, offering an example of how-as demonstrated by the evidence-many 
enthusiasts enter the production industry learning the technical and organizational aspects of a 
production set and industry to further develop the artistic elements of their roles. Because the record 
shows that the Petitioner's independent work in the field of film production has been displayed at 
artistic showcases, she meets the plain language of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(iv), and (vii). We therefore need not consider whether she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this case on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 03, 2024 In Re: 30185472 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a handball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference (EB-I) classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, 
as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that he is a former reserve member of thel IHandball team, a 
Master of Sports of Russia, and I I of a Russian professional handball club. The 
Petitioner further submitted evidence reflecting that he attended I lin Russia 
where he played handball and formulated a study guide/manual related to training and teaching the 
sport. The Petitioner asserts that he is a "world renowned athlete who has risen to the very top of his 
field." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of the two evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and a judge 
of the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) evidentiary criteria relating 
to awards (i) and judging (iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria 
relating to membership (ii), contributions of major significance (v), and leading or critical role (viii). 
Previously on the record, the Petitioner also indicated that he was eligible under published materials 
(vi) and high salary (ix), but he does not assert his eligibility under these criteria on appeal. The 
Petitioner further does not assert eligibility under original contributions (v), authorship (vi), display of 
work (vii), or commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will 
not address these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 
2009). While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered 
each one. Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association in his field, 
and that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 1 
The Director determined that although the Petitioner provided evidence to indicate that he had 
achieved the title of master of sports of Russia, he submitted no evidence to demonstrate that this was 
an association, or a form of membership as defined by regulations. The Director further concluded 
that the Petitioner did not establish that his asserted membership in the Conference of Handball 
Federation of Russia (Russian handball federation) met this criterion. Specifically, the Director 
concluded the submitted evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate that the Russian handball federation 
required outstanding professional achievements as recognized by national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the submitted bylaws of the Russian handball federation 
establish that membership in the organization requires the outstanding achievement of its members. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Russian handball federation is the "utmost authority in the nation within 
this field and athletes cannot go any further than being a member." The Petitioner further points to 
his title master of sports of Russia and asserts that this is only assigned to "distinguished players" 
receiving this honor "during a special award ceremony." In addition, the Petitioner cites statistics 
indicating that only approximately 0.2-2.4% of athletes become professionals and that it is "difficult 
to estimate the percentage of sportsman globally who become champions or masters of sport as there 
are may different sports and competitions around the world." 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion based on 
his membership in the Russian handball federation. As discussed by the Director, the Petitioner did 
not submit sufficient objective evidence to demonstrate that membership in the handball federation 
requires outstanding achievements as required by the regulations. The Petitioner also does not 
articulate on appeal why the Director's determination with respect to the Russian handball federation 
and its membership requirements were in error, nor does he discuss what outstanding achievements in 
his field led to his selection. 
To illustrate, the Petitioner submitted the "Charter of the Conference of the Handball Federation of 
Russia" discussing in section 3.2.1 the criteria required for being a member. This section stated that 
a candidate must have made "a significant contribution to the development of handball in Russia 
documented by the Ministry of Sports and Tourism of the Russian Federation or the Ministry of 
Education of the Russian Federation." Therefore, without further explanation or evidence, it does not 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires 
individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the 
individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
3 
appear that membership in the Russian handball federation requires outstanding achievements, since 
its charter only discusses a "significant contribution [emphasis added] to the development of handball 
in Russia." The Petitioner does not specify what significant contribution led to his selection, nor how 
a significant contribution (singular) meets the regulatory criteria of outstanding achievements (plural) 
in the field. The language of the charter also states that the significant contribution must be 
"documented" by one of two ministries of the Russian Federation, however, it is not clearly explained 
how this equates to being judged or recognized by national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner does not otherwise articulate why 
membership in the Russian handball federation requires outstanding achievements, but only asserts 
that it is "utmost authority in the nation within this field and athletes cannot go any further than being 
a member." Even if we accepted this contention, this does not demonstrate that membership in the 
Russian handball federation requires outstanding achievements in the field, particularly since its 
charter appears to indicate otherwise. 
Further, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the title master of sports of Russia requires 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. As discussed by 
the Director, the Petitioner has not clearly established that the title master of sports in Russia is an 
association with members, as it appears to be an honorary title and/or award. On appeal, the Petitioner 
also does not articulate how the Director erred in concluding that being conferred this title did not 
meet the criteria. In addition, the Petitioner emphasizes that this title is conferred during a "special 
award ceremony," suggesting in that it is an honor, rather than an association with membership. It is 
also questionable whether the title master of sports of Russia is specific to the Petitioner's field, 
handball, and reflective of outstanding achievement therein, as it appears it could be awarded to any 
athlete in any sport. 
Finally, the Petitioner points to statistics indicating that only approximately 0.2-2.4% of athletes 
become professionals, suggesting that this demonstrates his eligibility under this criterion. However, 
even if we accept these statistics, they relate to all professional athletes, not those within the 
Petitioner's field of handball. The Petitioner also does not explain how these general statistics relating 
to all professional athletes establish his membership in an association based on being judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field. For 
instance, although becoming a professional athlete is a remarkable achievement, it is not an association 
with members with specifically defined criteria for membership. 
For the reasons discussed above, the evidence submitted here does not show that the Petitioner has a 
membership in an association that satisfies all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
4 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.2 
In support of the petition, the Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary authored a study guide/manual for 
teaching handball at the university-level that was recognized by the Russian Federal Ministry of 
Education and "indicative ofor consistent with recognition in the field." The Petitioner further pointed 
to an expert opinion submitted from a Sports and Fitness Director and Professor 
at stating that after a year of work the university had published the 
Petitioner's training manual titledl Iopined 
that "it was a miracle that the designated expert commission from the federal Ministry of Education 
cleared this study guide for publication in our teaching program" and that he "anticipate[ d] a huge 
impact of this publication on sports study in our university with [sic] prospective to be adopted by 
other universities." 
In the request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged the published material discussed by the 
Petitioner but indicated that the provided evidence did not demonstrate its major significance to the 
field ofhandball. The Director further explained that the expert letter from I ldid not provide 
specific examples as to how the Petitioner's study guide/manual had been ofmajor significance to the 
field. Therefore, the Director requested that the Petitioner provide sufficient objective documentary 
evidence to demonstrate that his work was of major significance in the field, such as evidence to 
establish that others in the field consider his work important, it provoked widespread commentary, or 
it was widely cited or implemented by others in the field. 
In response, the Petitioner provided additional documentary evidence related to this criterion but did 
not explain how it established his eligibility. For instance, the Petitioner provided another letter of 
recommendation from I I again discussing the Petitioner's development of "the first 
methodological recommendations in teaching handball" that "formed a new perspective on the 
teaching of handball and played a critical role in future development." Further, the Petitioner 
submitted another letter of recommendation from the president of __________ 
discussing the Petitioner's handball study guide/manual, its approval by the Ministry of Education, 
and its inclusion in the educational program of the university. The president also opined that the 
Petitioner's "manual allowed the university to develop in this sphere, to educate specialists in the field 
of theoretical training in handball, and to reduce the number of sports injuries among handball 
players." 
In concluding that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, the Director determined that the evidence 
submitted was not sufficient to establish the major significance of his handball study guide/manual in 
the field. Again, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner may have published material related 
to handball but concluded he did not sufficiently demonstrate that his work was widely cited or 
adopted, as necessary to demonstrate that it was of major significance in the field. The Director 
addressed that the Petitioner provided evidence to reflect he was invited to a handball specific 
educational conference but indicated he did not submit documentary evidence to demonstrate how this 
reflected his contributions of major significance in the field. Likewise, the Director discussed the 
submitted letters of recommendation and determined that the letters did not discuss how the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2. 
5 
Petitioner's study guide/manual was of major significance in the field by pointing to independent, 
objective evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner states that he provided extensive documentation to 
satisfy this criterion and contends that the conclusion of the Director was "an arbitrary conclusion not 
supported by substantial evidence." 
First, the Petitioner does not specifically articulate on appeal how the Director's determinations with 
respect to this criterion represented an "arbitrary conclusion." We note that that the Petitioner must 
specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Regardless, the submitted evidence does not sufficiently establish that the 
Petitioner's handball study guide/manual was of major significance in the field. Even if we accept 
that the Petitioner's original material was adopted and published by his university, it is not clear how 
this establishes that it was of major significance in the field of handball. For instance, the Petitioner 
provided little objective documentary evidence, as requested by the Director, to establish that his study 
guide/manual provoked widespread commentary in the field of handball or that it was widely cited or 
implemented by others in the field. 
The Petitioner largely relies on recommendation letters from officials from his university, however, 
the statements ofl land the university's president do not support a conclusion that his study 
guide/manual on handball has been of major significance in the field. For example, I I 
indicated that he "anticipate[ s] a huge impact" resulting from the Petitioner's work and noted that it 
would play a "critical role in the future development" of handball training techniques. However,□ 
I I assertions discuss the potential significance of the Petitioner's study guide/manual, 
discussing only its potential for impacting future development, rather than its major significance in 
the field as of the date the petition was filed. In fact, the president of I I 
stated that the study guide/manual had allowed the university only to "develop in this sphere" and to 
educate specialists in the field, but he did not sufficiently discuss how it was of major significance in 
the field overall. In addition, the president emphasized that the Petitioner's "theoretical training in 
handball" and how it reduced the number of sports injuries among handball players. However, the 
president of provides little objective support for this assertion and the 
Petitioner provided no other documentary evidence to support that his training methods have had an 
impact of major significance on injuries in the field of handball or that his training methods have been 
widely adopted. 
The Petitioner must resolve inconsistencies and ambiguities in the record with independent, objective 
evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). The 
affected party has the burden of proof to establish eligibility for the requested benefit at the time of 
filing the benefit request and continuing until the final adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); see also 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Comm'r 1971). Further, we may, in our discretion, use 
advisory opinion statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted 
in evidence as expert testimony. However, where an opinion is not in accord with other information 
or is in any way questionable, we are not required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. 
Matter ofCaron Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 791 (Comm'r 1988). 
Because the Petitioner has not established that these personal achievements are original contributions 
which have been ofmajor significance to the sport ofhandball, we conclude that he does not meet this 
criterion. 
6 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. 3 
In concluding that the Petitioner had not met this criterion, the Director again discussed the letters 
emphasized by the Petitioner froml land the president of _________ The 
Director concluded that these letters did not sufficiently address how his role was leading or critical 
for the organization, nor how his university (or another identified organization or establishment) had 
a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner again emphasizes the letters submitted from D I land the president ofI I The Petitioner asserts that it has provided "extensive 
documentation" and "certainly satisfied this criterion." The Petitioner once again indicates that the 
Director's conclusion with respect to this criterion was "arbitrary." 
Yet again, the Petitioner does not articulate on appeal how the Director's determinations with respect 
to this criterion were "arbitrary." 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). As noted, the Petitioner emphasizes the 
submitted recommendation letters on appeal. However, neither recommendation letter directly 
addresses the Director's conclusion that he provided insufficient evidence to establish that his 
university, or any other organization or establishment he had a role with, had a distinguished 
reputation. In fact, the Petitioner does not specifically articulate for whom he played a leading or 
critical role, such as the university as a whole or just a department therein, nor did he clearly indicate 
whether his role was leading or critical. For these reasons alone, the Petitioner has not met this 
criterion. 
In addition, as discussed by the Director, the recommendation letters do not specifically discuss how 
the Petitioner's role was leading or critical. For instance, the Petitioner cites a quote from the president 
ofI on appeal discussing how his study guide/manual "helped to introduce 
the system of teaching European handball to a wider audience," reflected "positive results" following 
a "one-year study," "helped to reduce the number of sports injuries among handball players," and 
educated "specialists in the field of theoretical training in handball." However, even if the president 
of _________ articulated how the Petitioner's role was leading or critical, he provided 
little support for his conclusions in the letter, such as how the Petitioner's methods had been introduced 
to a wider European audience, details related to the one-year study conducted about his work, or 
evidence to support that his work led to reduced injuries amongst handball players. As noted, both 
recommendation letters assert that the Petitioner's work has led to potential future university 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2. 
7 
development in the field, but they do not sufficiently establish that his role was leading or critical, nor 
that the university ( or another identified organization or establishment) for which he played a role had 
a distinguished reputation. Again, we may, in our discretion, use advisory opinion statements from 
universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. 
However, where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we 
are not required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 791. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
discussed above. As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement ofthree criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(i) 
and (viii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address these 
remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while the Petitioner has achieved 
some success as a powerlifting athlete and coach, the record does not support a conclusion that he 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance oftheir work is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8537913 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , al I painter, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates work in the field oft !artwork. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he 
meets four additional criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect 
that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 1 The Petitioner argues his eligibility for this criterion 
based on membershjp with rel !Association of Folk Artisans and Artists ofl I I _ Specifically, the Petitioner claims: 
In accordance with the Charter ofl J admission to the Association is granted 
based on recommendation of Art Experts Coµncil composed solely of nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk arts and based on the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
applicant's outstanding artistic achievements in the field ofl I folk arts, as judged 
by such nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of folk 
art. 
Although he references a "Charter," the record does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted a charter 
or similar documentation to support his assertions. In fact, the record shows that at initial filing, the 
Petitioner offered his membership certifil ate, al d in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), he presented a screenshot from that provides a general overview and purpose of 
I I including contact information. These materials, however, do not demonstrate the 
requirements or criteria for obtaining membership withl I Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish thatl I's membership requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 2 At initial filing, the Pe~itioner submitted two articles published i~ I and I I Regarding I althou h the Petitioner claimed a publication 
date o~ "I 201 7, the translation reflects a date of 2017." In response to the 
Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a letter from the Regional Printing House, LLC, 
indicating that the article "was announced ... ~---~ 2017." However, the Petitioner did not 
present a complete and accurate translation of the article. Any document in a foreign language must 
be accompanied by a foll English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must 
certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner provided a 
translation that conflicts with other evidence, the Petitioner did not show that the translated material 
is accurate and supports the Petitioner's claims. Inconsistencies in the record must be resolved with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). In addition, the Petitioner did not include the required author for the I I I !article. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not establish that these regional newspapers qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner offered a letter from the 
editor of1 lwho stated that the newspaper covers thel I region with "an average 
of 9,000 -11,000 copies per year." In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the editor of 
I I who indicated that the "spread area isl ~ and "is published per a week 
in 3000 (three hundred copies)." However, the Petitioner did not provide any independent, objective 
evidence showing the newspapers' standings as major media. USCIS need not rely on the self-
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 
2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover a 
magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Further, the 
Petitioner did not show the significance of the "9,000 -11,000" and "3000" (or "three hundred") 
circulation figures or explain how such data reflects status as major media. 3 
We note that in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided two pieces of material 
published after the initial filing of the petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As such, we will not consider this evidence in our 
adjudication of this appeal. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.4 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that "his mastery of traditional! I art was recognized as a 
contribution of major significance to the field by leading experts in this field." The record reflects that 
the Petitioner submitted three recommendation letters that opined on his abilities, skills, and personal 
traits. For instance, "[i]n two years, he got all the necessary skills where others were already doing 
for a long time" I I, "[ the Petitioner] distinguished himself with diligence and critical 
engagement, which . . . stern from his intellectual curiosity and commitment to learning" D I I, and "[the Petitioner~ is extremely creative and is able to produce unique, expressive, and 
inventive of art"I _ I. However, having a diverse, unique, or special skill 
set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Further, the record must be supported 
by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a 
significant level, which the letters do not show. Furthermore, none of the letters, as asserted by the 
Petitioner, mention or reference his artwork as contributions of major significance in the field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his artwork has had on the overall field. Letters 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra. at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Although he 
provided samples of his artwork demonstrating originality, the Petitioner did not explain or establish 
how the artwork impacted or influenced the overall field. 7 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to memberships, published 
material, and original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for an additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach this 
additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner claims experience as a miniature painter, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14274052 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an operatic vocalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
only satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed at various concert and recital venues in the United States and France. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner filed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating that "I am filing an appeal 
to the AAO," and that she would be providing a brief and/or additional evidence within 30 days. 
(emphasis in original). See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a). In her subsequent brief, she contested the Director's 
decision as a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a). As the Petitioner 
filed an appeal to us, we will adjudicate her Form I-290B as an appeal. Furthermore, the regulation 
does not permit us to adjudicate her appeal as a motion because motion jurisdiction lies with the 
official who made the latest decision in the proceeding, which, in this case, is the Director. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for one additional criterion. After reviewing all of the 
presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
2 
the material. 1 At initial filing, the Petitioner provided articles posted online and printed in 
publications. The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), stating that "some articles [] mention 
the [Petitioner's] name but are about the performance or production rather than the [Petitioner]." See, 
e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Director indicated that 
"some articles [are] about the [Petitioner] relating to her work," but she did not show "that the 
publications qualify as major trade publications or some other form of major media." Further, the 
Director offered various types of documentation, such as the title, date, and author of the published 
material; the circulation (online and/or in print); comparative circulation data of major publications in 
the field; and the intended audience of the publication. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted translations of two articles published in Midi Libre and 
circulation data for the publication. 2 In denying the petition, the Director determined that "the 
[P]etitioner submitted sufficient evidence about Midi Libre to establish that it is a form of major 
media," but the Petitioner did not include the authors of the two articles. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 3 
In her brief: the Petitioner argues that "the Service did not address there being an issue with the absence 
of the author's name." Besides the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requiring "the title, date, 
and author of the material," the Director, as indicated above, informed the Petitioner in the RFE of the 
inclusion of the title, date, and author. In fact, the Petitioner's cover letter in response to the RFE 
repeated the Director's RFE language, specifically citing "the title, date, and author of the published 
material." 
In addition, the Petitioner submits two letters. However, as she did not present this evidence in her 
initial filing or in response to the Director's RFE, we will not consider this new evidence in our 
adjudication of this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that 
if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any 
purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); 
see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the Director erred in determining the absence of the authors in the published material. 
Furthermore, we do not agree with the Director that the Petitioner demonstrated that Midi Libre 
qualifies as a major medium. In the RFE response, the Petitioner provided circulation figures from 
2018 and 2019 for the publication. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the relevance or 
significance of the data to show Midi Libre 's status as a major medium. The Petitioner did not offer, 
for example, comparative statistics for major newspapers in France in order to demonstrate Midi 
Libre 's standing as a major medium. Moreover, although she claimed that Midi Libre "is one of the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 The Petitioner did not make any arguments or provide evidence relating to the other initially submitted articles and 
publications. 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
top newspapers in the entire country of France," the Petitioner did not submit documentation to support 
her assertions. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the record reflects her experience, the Petitioner did not establish that she is among the upper 
echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14274123 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a designer and manufacturer ofl I vehicles, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a I I engineer, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary asl I engineer since 2018. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized 
award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must meet at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's eligibility for two additional 
criteria. After reviewing all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Beneficiary 
meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has the Beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner did not initially claim the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based, in part or in 
full, on citation numbers. Instead, the Director conducted his own Google Scholar search and found 
"no profile associated with the beneficiary's name" and requested "what, if any additional Google 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance) . 
2 
Scholar profile and labels are associated with the beneficiary's publications." In response, the 
Petitioner argued about the accuracy and reliability of citation counts. In denying the petition, the 
Director referenced figures "from the Google Scholar database revealed the profile associated with the 
beneficiary's name" and compares the Petitioner's cumulative citations to "other published experts in 
the beneficiary's field of endeavor" to "show[] that scientists who have risen to the very top of the 
beneficiary's field have garnered citations numbered in the thousands."2 
Neither the statute nor the regulations require the Petitioner to submit citatory evidence for this 
criterion. As guidance, examples of original work that constitutes major, significant contributions 
include, but not limited to, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed 
articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the 
individual's work as authoritative in the field. 3 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the 
field has taken interest in an individual's research or written work. In addition, citatory evidence may 
contain probative value in corroborating statements in recommendation letters or supporting other 
documentation in establishing the significance of the contributions. If the Petitioner provides citatory 
evidence, the burden remains with the Petitioner to show the accuracy, reliability, and relevance of 
those figures and explain how they demonstrate original contributions of major significance in the 
field. 
The comparison of a beneficiary's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate 
in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates 
an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final 
merits determination. See Kazarian 596 F.3d at 1115. Again, the issue for this criterion is whether a 
beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field rather than how the 
citations reflect a beneficiary's national or international acclaim or where the cumulative citations rank 
among other renowned scientists in the field. However, a comparison of citations of a beneficiary's 
individual article to a particular scientific article that the field views as being majorly significant may 
be probative to establish a citation baseline for majorly significant scientific articles in the field. 
On appeal, in arguing the unreliability and inaccuracy of using Google Scholar labeling data, the 
Petitioner provides cumulative citations from Google Scholar for other scientists depending on various 
labels and submits the Beneficiary's Google Scholar individual article citations showing that his 
highest cited article received 35 citations. Although the Petitioner does not contend using citatory 
evidence to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility, the record does not reflect that the citation figures 
for any of the Beneficiary's individual articles demonstrate contributions of major significance in the 
field as the Petitioner did not offer evidence explaining the relevance of the citation numbers. 
Moreover, as previously discussed, comparing cumulative citations to other scientists is more 
appropriate in a final merits determination where the probative nature of the evidence would be best 
addressed. Given that the Petitioner does not argue the Beneficiary's eligibility based on citatory 
evidence and the Director's improper application of comparing the Beneficiary's cumulative citations 
2 The Director included screenshots of the Beneficiary's Google Scholar profile under the labels'-----,,---,..,...---' I I and .__ ____ __.' screenshots of other individuals' Google Scholar cumulative citations, and a 2014 
Scientometrics a11icle relating to citation percentiles. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
3 
to other scientists to show his acclaim or overall placement in the field for this criterion, we will not 
further consider the Google Scholar data. 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary "is the named inventor on two patents for._l __ _. 
technologies assigned tq I." In general, a patent generally recognizes 
the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish a contribution of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner claims that is "has demonstrated the major significance of 
these original contributions by providing evidence of the commercialization of these technologies and 
of their impact on the field" and broadly lists exhibits. However, the Petitioner did not specifically 
identify the evidence and explain how it supports its assertions. The majority of the exhibits relate to 
recommendation letters that make no mention of the Petitioner's patents or describe how the 
commercialization of the patents resulted in widespread usage, signifying a contribution of major 
significance in the field. In fact, only three of the letters even referenced his patents, which were only 
briefly mentioned. For example, "[ the Beneficiary] is the author of two patents regarding! I I t' -~----------'' and "[i]n addition to his many patent and research 
publications, [the Beneficiary] has also served as a valuable source for the scientific community"LJ I ~ Neither letter elaborates nor explains the significance of the patents in the field. 
Moreover,! I stated he collaborated with the Beneficiary on two patents and ~ is 
set to apply these systems to thei~ !vehicles in the near future," indilatinJ potential usa e 
but does not show the influence in the overall field beyond the testing stages at 4 Similar! I ~ndicated that " t he al orithms he developed have been tested and validated b ~-----' 
engineers on th_._~---~------' further confirming the important timing and relevance of 
his work." Again,~--~ does not describe the overall impact of the Beneficiary's algorithms 
beyondDs testing and validating stages. 
The Petitioner also contends that the Beneficiarr's "patented techniques have been cited in subsequent 
patents assigned t-,.__ ________ _,, LI I and 
more" and submits screenshots from patents.google.com. However, as the Petitioner did not make 
these claims and submit these documents before the Director, either at the time it filed the petition or 
in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider these claims and documents in 
our adjudication of this appeal. See Matter o_f Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for 
any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the 
Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
In addition to the letters discussed above, some of them reference the Beneficiary's research and 
contributions in terms of ros ective im act or influence. For instance, the Beneficiary's research on 
th modeling "can reflect the aging process ot1, I' 
, "the accurate information provided by this method can protec~ _ I --------~-----., I I, "this method can be utilized to develop the 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
4 
I systems for different I 7" I I, and ""[the 
._B-en_e_f~1c~i-ary_'_s ]_r ..... esearch regarding the I ~n drastically reduce the cost of a 
and modeling that [the Beneficiary] developed can be used to predict 
1------~---_.protect ~---~' and reduce the .__ ________ ~replacement" 
.__ ___ __, ( emphasis added). Here, the letters hypothesize on the effect of the Beneficiary's research 
and work at some undetermined time in the future. The letters do not show that the significant nature 
of his research has already been realized or has been implemented or utilized in a manner consistent 
with major significance. 
M oreover, e e ers ISCUSS th 1 tt d. th f d. em mgso e ene 1crnry s researc fth B fi . WI OU h ·th t furth 1 . . h er exo ammg ow 
the work has resulted in contributions of major significance. For exampleJ 
indicated findings from the Beneficiary's master thesis relating to a I 
I 
I' and his design of a 1 
I I' However,! ldid not 
elaborate and describe how this work has somehow affected the field in a significant manner. 
Likewise stated that the Beneficiary's "research has built a critical bridge between the 
,,__ ________ ..,_e;:.;n=i;;;:n:..::.e.=.cer::.;:i;;;;:n=-:;m;;;;:o.:::....::;dels" and his algorithm estimates are 'I I 
L..---~---~----------' ' Although he opines on the importance of the Beneficiary's 
findings....._ __ __, did not expand upon the impact or influence in the wider field. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Beneficiary's research or work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an individual contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 7 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 Id. 
5 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary performed in a critical role and references two 
recommendation letters. Specifically,! ~ in cha,._r ... e::........;os:...f...._..,.._ ________ __, I I for the Petitioner, described the Beneficiary's role as ,__ __ _.engineer, such as "[the 
Beneficiary] works with the Department to design and create._! _____ __. I I that will maximiz ensure safety standards, offer optimal performance and 
handling, and reduce consumer cost." listed other responsibilities, such as establishing 
novel designs for systems; developing and designing testing, modeling, and 
assessing of,___~ systems; creating the software for the I I system; and 
collaborating with anld providrg hands-on support to other engineers during production, assessment, 
and deployment of systems. Moreover.I I stated that the Beneficiary's 
"extraordinary skills offer us a great strategic advantage and he plays an essential role in perfecting 
[the Petitioner'sj , I design." 
Instead of describing how the Beneficiary has significantly contributed to the Petitioner's outcomes 
and activitiesl I offered a general job description and duties of the position. I I 
did not provide specific information, explaining how the Beneficiary has performed in a critical role. 8 
He did not, for example, detail the Beneficiary's contributions and show how his role a~ I 
engineer resulted in successes or achievements for the company, signifying a crucial or essential role. 
Similarly, the letter froml I previously discussed, reflects the nature of the role rather than 
how the Beneficiary has performed in a critical role for the Petitioner. Specifically] I stated 
that "[the Beneficiary's] essential role asl I developer [for the Petitioner] involves applying his 
expertise in I ~ systems to develop a strategy to find the 
balancing point between thd t and "[t]his is an absolutel[i necessity 
for [the Petitioner's] vehicle to surpass its competition and improve thel industry." 
Again.I I does not describe what contributions the Beneficiary made in his role asl . I 
engineer for the Petitioner and how those contributions resulted in the successful outcomes or activities 
of the company. I I for instance, did not identify the Beneficiary's! I 
strategy and how it impacted the business. 
In addition, the Petitioner initiall claimed that the Beneficiary met this criterion "through his post­
doctoral tenure at " S ecificall , the Petitioner stated that I I 
.__ __ -:-------:---;:::::======='.....:1:.:.:n===::;--:-----' Program, one of the world's leading 
research programs m has partnered with I I to advance the 
development of L-_ _,----,. ____ ~ _____ __J vehicles," and "[ d]uring his doctoral and 
post-doctoral tenure at the Beneficiary] played a critical role in leading key research for this 
program." As it related to the Petitioner provided documentation regarding the university's 
ran~ings, rd media articles reporting onD's "notable accolades for research" and collaboration 
wit In res onse to the Director's RFE the Petitioner contends that the Beneficia " la ed a 
ivotal role in th 
project." Further, the Petitioner stressed the ' and ,__ ______ _. ._ ___________ __. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
,....t.._h..,.ec.i.1--,-----.:::,----------c------,JJ' and stated that '~I -~I is a highly ranked research university in 
,__I _ ___.I c:nada." 
On appeal, the Petitioner no longer argues the Beneficiary's role withOoverall. Instead, the 
Petitioner changes its claim and narrows the Beneficiary's role to.__ _____________ _. I t and submits additional documentation. As the Petitioner did not make this claim and 
present these documents before the Director, either at the time it filed the petition or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence, we will not consider this claim and documents in our adjudication of 
this appeal.9 Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 766; see also Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec at 533. Furthermore, 
although the Petitioner references testimonial letters froml I, I I andl I 
they do not discuss how the Beneficiary's role with thel I project constituted a critical 
role forD The letters do not indicate or explain how the Beneficiary's contributions to the project 
resulted in essential or crucial outcomes or activities fore=] 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfied this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. 
INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
9 In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner would also have to establish the distinguished reputation oft~-~ 
7 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Beneficiary has judged some journal and conference 
papers and authored a few scholarly articles, the Petitioner did not establish that he is among the upper 
echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14285462 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, and we dismissed the appeal. 
Subsequently, we dismissed a combined motion to reconsider and reopen. 1 The matter is now before 
us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. The requirements 
of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 See In Re: 9809356 (AUG. 11, 2020). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award and that he satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), of which he must meet at least three. In dismissing the appeal, we withdrew the 
Director's determination relating to the judging criterion and decided that the Petitioner did not fulfill 
any of the claimed criteria. On motion, the Petitioner requested us to reconsider our decision without 
showing how we erroneously applied law or policy. Further, while he provided additional 
documentation, we determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the new evidence demonstrated 
his eligibility for the judging criterion. 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's current motion to reconsider does not overcome our 
prior decision. 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief mirroring 
his previous motion brief In fact, besides the brief' s introductory paragraph, the current motion brief 
is identical to the prior motion brief: without any mention or discussion of our decision dismissing his 
combined motions. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of 
law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our 
decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider 
is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
As he did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his prior motions, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will dismiss his 
current motion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed his previous motions based on the record 
before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13697723 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and subsequently dismissed a 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. We then dismissed the appeal. 1 The matter is 
now before us on a combined motion. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence , 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
1 See In Re: 6798659 (July 22, 2020). 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received 
a one-time achievement and that she had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
she must meet at least three. In addition, the Director dismissed the motions, determining that the 
Petitioner did not provide new facts or evidence and did not show that the Director erroneously applied 
law or policy. 
In dismissing her appeal, we determined that the Director properly dismissed the motion to reopen 
because the Petitioner did not offer new facts or evidence; instead, she provided previously submitted 
documentation. Further, we concluded that the Director properly dismissed the motion to reconsider 
because the Petitioner did not state the reasons why the Director should reconsider the decision, and 
she did not identify any erroneously application of law or policy. Moreover, we decided that the 
Petitioner did not establish her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. Further, we 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for any of the following claimed criteria: 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner's combined motions do not overcome our prior 
decision dismissing her appeal. 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner restates and describes the 
evidence she submitted under the one-time achievement and the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, published material, judging, original contributions, and leading or critical role. 2 
However, the Petitioner does not argue or point to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in our 
prior decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. In fact, the Petitioner does not even mention 
2 The Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not address our decision regarding the scholarly articles and high salaiy 
criteria. 
2 
our decision and address our specific conclusions, including our determinations on the Director's 
combined motion decision. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a 
matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to 
reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion 
to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). Furthermore, our decision 
thoroughly analyzed and explained why every piece of evidence and arguments addressed in the 
motion did not meet the regulatory requirements. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we 
erred in either misapplying law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. 
For these reasons, we will dismiss her motion to reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). The Petitioner provides the following new evidence under the corresponding criteria: 
1) a certificate fromc=] dated December 8, 2011 (awards); 2) a letter from the People Management 
Association of the Phili ines dated January 3, 2006 (memberships); 3) letters froml I 
and,__ ___ ..--____ ....,dated December 28, 2012 and January 8, 2003, respectively (judging); 
5) letters from~---~ andl I dated March 11, 2017 and July 18, 2017, 
respectively (leading or critical role); and 6) 2005 Filipino income tax documentation (high salary). 
However, as the Petitioner did not submit these documents before the Director, either at the time she 
filed the petition or in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider these claims 
and documents in our adjudication of this motion. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence 
submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of 
proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
Although the documents pre-date the filing of her initial filing, the Petitioner did not explain why she 
did not present these documents before the Director. Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence 
to determine the Beneficiary's eligibility under the applicable criteria for the first time on motion. As 
such, we will dismiss her motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed her appeal based on the record before us, 
nor did she demonstrate that her additional evidence fulfills at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6500577 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architect focusing in the areas of landscape architecture and urban planning, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish that Petitioner met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three of the alternative criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an architect focusing in the areas of landscape architecture and urban design. In 
addition to workin from an office inl I she is also an associate professor at the University 
'------~---'I in I I Chile. She earned a Ph.D. in architecture in 2013 from the 
University of.__ __ _. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases and 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she 
also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and original 
contributions of major significance. 1 After review we agree with the Director regarding the two 
criteria he determined that the Petitioner met. However, we disagree with him regarding the 
Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles and their publication in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
Specifically, in his decision the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has authored scholarly 
articles, including books, but found that the evidence does not demonstrate that these were published 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii) and (viii). 
We therefore consider these issues to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. AttJJ Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 
2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. On appeal, the Petitioner does not 
address this requirement in the criterion, but focuses on the Director's discussion of the number of 
citations to her published works by others in her field when analyzing the evidence under this criterion. 
We agree with the Petitioner that a comparison of the number of citations to her published work with 
that of others in the field is not required by the plain language of this criterion. In addition, we note 
that the Director's request for evidence (RFE) did not specify the type of evidence needed to establish 
the qualifying nature of the publications. 
Even so, in responding to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided evidence of the media in which 
her scholarly works were published. For example, she submitted evidence that her article l I I t was published in the magazine Studio, which describes itself as being "written by 
architects, but it's not written only lby arritects or just for architects." Another example is a copy of 
the conference proceedings for the Conference of the Italian Society of Urbanists (SIU): Italian 
Urban Planning in the World, which includes an abstract of her paper presented at the conference. 
These publications are professional in nature, as they are meant to be read by professionals within the 
Petitioner's field. In addition to these and other articles published in similar publications, the 
Petitioner also submitted evidence of several books and book chapters she authored, all of which focus 
on topics in her field. We therefore withdraw the Director's decision regarding this criterion and find 
that its requirements have been met. 
As the Petitioner has established that she meets the initial evidence requirement of meeting at least 
three alternative criteria, we will conduct a final merits determination of all of the evidence, including 
that submitted under the criteria which the Director determined that she did not meet. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
While the Petitioner does not specifically address her sustained international or national acclaim in 
her appeal brief or other supporting materials, she asserts that her "books are widely distributed in 
Europe and the United States" and that she has participated as a keynote speaker on many occasions. 
Regarding the distribution on her books, however, she does not refer to specific evidence in the record 
to support this assertion. We note that the record includes a letter from I !Publishing, 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec.22.2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
described as "an independent publishing house created by Chilean architects," which verifies that it 
published two of the Petitioner's books in the Spanish language: ~----------- .......... I I and~---------------~ But this letter does not provide 
information about the number of these books published or sold, or other information to establish that 
the Petitioner's work as an author and editor has received acclaim at the national or international level. 
While additional evidence from the publisher's website indicates that a new edition of I I I was published in Spanish in 2017, including new interviews and projects, ~f_u_rt_h-er~ 
information about the book's distribution are not provided. Also, reference letters in the record 
confirm that she published these and other books, and conducted book launch events in conjunction 
with exhibitions, but do not speak to the field's reception of or reaction to these books, or the number 
of book sales that followed. 
In addition, while we acknowledged above that evidence of the citations to the Petitioner's published 
work is not relevant to meeting the criterion regarding her authorship of scholarly articles, 
comparative evidence is relevant in the final merits determination, in which we must determine 
whether she is one that small percentage at the top of her field. When discussing the citations in her 
appeal brief, the Petitioner asserts that the narrow scope of her work, "the subset of landscape and its 
application to urban planning," makes any comparison of citation figures useless, as she "is quite 
literally the expert in the field." However, she identifies herself as an architect elsewhere in the record, 
and states her intention "to continue teaching, writing, and working in the field of architecture." She 
must therefore establish that the totality of the evidence, which here includes evidence of her record 
of publication, places her amongst the small percentage at the top of that field. 3 The Petitioner has 
not provided evidence to demonstrate that her record of publication, or the reaction to it by other 
experts in her field, places her at that level or has received or is indicative of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also references a document, both in response to the RFE and on appeal, titled "National 
Scientific Qualification," which she describes as a qualification evaluation by the Italian Ministry of 
Education. 4 It includes individual evaluations of her work in the field of architectural design, as well 
as a "collective evaluation" and determination that she met the qualifications. This evaluation, which 
indicates that it is valid from October 17, 2018 to October 17, 2014, describes her as "an erudite and 
very active young scholar, whose studies ... are of elevated quality and have considerably contributed 
to the progress of research in the scientific community of her field." Regarding her published work, 
the evaluation states that they "demonstrate a high level of rigor and originality so that they contribute 
in a significant way to the advancement of the addressed research topics ... " Although the evaluators 
are unanimous in their opinion that the Petitioner's scholarly work is sufficient to meet the criteria for 
qualification for the position of associate professor in Italy, and note specific publications of hers that 
they consider to be of high quality, they do not specify what her contributions to the field are or in 
what ways she has advanced knowledge in her field. In addition, the repetition of the same or similar 
language in the individual evaluations, such as "a recognized position in the national [ and 
international] research context [panorama]," indicates that they may have been written with specific 
3 See Buletini v. INS, 860 F.Supp. 1222, 1229 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (finding that the alien's field was medical science rather 
than nephrology). 
4 The document indicates that the Petitioner is being evaluated for her qualification as an associate professor. 
4 
criteria in mind, and the use of such language in this context does not establish that the Petitioner has 
met the requirements of Section 203(b )(1) of the Act despite similar verbiage. 
Regarding the Petitioner's activity in exhibitions, seminars and presentations, the record includes 
several reference letters which confirm her roles as a curator, moderator, and peer reviewer, as well as 
the display of her own work. For example, I I of the University ofl I in Italy states 
that the Petitioner curated a project, I I' which was 
presented in 2014 and 2015 at separate exhibitions. A copy of a program or flyer lists the Petitioner's 
role in this exhibition as a moderator and curator, with I I as one of several 
discussants. A similar document indicates that she served as a curator for an exhibition at the Museum 
of Contemporary Art (MAC) in I I Chile. In addition, a letter from I I of the 
Museums o~ linl l Italy thanks the Petitioner for allowing the museum to 
display two of her projects in an exhibition at the museum. 
Regarding the evidence of her service as an advisor and peer reviewer for two symposiums, one of 
which occurred well after the filing of the petition, this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner is 
acknowledged as an expert in her field. However, the Petitioner has not shown that this 
acknowledgement rises to the level of acclaim, or that her work in this role at two symposiums 
demonstrates a sustained pattern that places her near the top of her field. This evidence shows that the 
Petitioner has been active in exhibiting her own work and organizing presentations of the work of 
others, and has on occasion reviewed the work of others, but does not demonstrate that she has set 
herself apart from other architects working in the area of landscape urbanism. 
The record also includes evidence of several architectural projects which the Petitioner has participated 
in or led. A letter from I bf the University ofl I confirms her role as an 
urban planner and designer and research coordinator on a consulting project for the city ofi I 
Italy, as well as co-coordinator of the I I Although I I describes the 
Petitioner's work on these projects as contributions to the field, he does not indicate wh the were 
important to the field or that she garnered acclaim for this work. also a 
scholar at the University ofl I goes into further detail about the '.__ ________ ____. 
project, indicating that as a result of the Petitioner's work, "ecological restrictions" were put into place 
and the city "update~ ~".__ _____ __.concludes that the Petitioner's work on 
this project and others "have greatly benefit the international architectural field," but offers no 
explanation as to the specific benefits of these projects and how the Petitioner's work on them have 
influenced others in her field. 
In addition, other reference letters describe the Petitioner's teaching role, primarily at D I I I I and I I two of her colleagues at the school, confirm that she teaches at the 
undergraduate, graduate and post-graduate levels. I I mentions her receipt of a research 
grant for a collaborative project between D and I r University, andl I lists several 
projects to which the Petitioner has contributed which "have been immensely influential in her field." 
As previously noted in the discussion of other reference letters, although these letters confirm the 
Petitioner's scholarly work and participation in and leadership of several research projects, they do 
not provide sufficient detail of the impact of this work on the field and her resulting standing within 
the overall field. We note that depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, USCIS 
may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration 
5 
Appeals (the Board) has held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-­
serving." See, e.g., Matter of S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board 
also held, however: "We not only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial 
and documentary evidence, where available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or 
credibility, there is a greater need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B­
' 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). Here, while the documentary evidence sufficiently corroborates the 
writers' statements regarding the Petitioner's activities in her field, it does not support the vague 
assertions of her standing in the field. 
On review, the balance of the record demonstrates that the Petitioner is an active and productive 
researcher, scholar, and practitioner in the field of architecture, particularly in her focused area of 
landscape urbanism, but does not establish that her work has brought her the requisite sustained 
acclaim at the national or international level, or that she has risen to be one of the few at the very top 
of her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that her work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner is one 
of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6370813 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an entrepreneur in the field of business, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirement of at least three of the criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder of the I O • I Club, a business catering to the owners of high­
performance luxury automobiles in China. The business offers car rental and maintenance services, 
collaborates with the makers of other luxury items to offer exclusives goods and services, and 
organizes automotive events. The Petitioner states that his intention upon entering the United States 
would be to "use the access to the U.S. to offer more investment opportunities" to members, and to 
reach partnership agreements with similar clubs in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about him in major media and his 
leading role for the company he founded. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to participation as a judge of the work of others in the field, and original 
business contributions of major significance. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that he has not met the initial evidence requirements. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) seeking translator certifications which state that the 
provided translations of documents from the Chinese to English language were complete, in 
accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). In response, the Petitioner submitted the same evidence as 
initially submitted, together with individual certifications for each translated document which included 
the required statement. However, upon review we note that many of the English language translations 
do not include a complete translation of the original material in Chinese, which is evident based upon 
2 
a comparison of the structure of the materials and the Petitioner's highlighting of his name and certain 
passages in the original documents. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets this criterion, but did not provide an analysis or indicate 
which evidence supported the Petitioner's claim. The Petitioner submitted more than twenty articles 
in support of this criterion, along with evidence relating to the media in which they were published. 1 
While, as noted above, most of the translations accompanying these documents are incomplete, the 
evidence is sufficient to show that some of them are about the Petitioner and his work, focusing on his 
career and establishment of thel I Club. However, of these articles about the Petitioner, 
much of the evidence regarding the media in which they were published does not establish that they 
can be considered either professional or major trade publications or another type of major media. For 
example, information on website traffic was submitted regarding www.sohu.com and www.163.com, 
internet portals which are popular in China. However, many of the articles were posted on specific 
webpages within those portals, such asl lsohu.com andl 1163.com, about which 
information was not provided. In those cases, the record does not include information regarding the 
specific media on which these articles were published, and they are therefore not qualifying under this 
criterion. 
Other articles about the Petitioner, however, have been sufficiently shown to have been published in 
major media. For example, the record includes an interview of him at the 20161 !Auto Show 
which was posted on autohome.com.cn. As such, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
In his decision, the Director found that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion, as many of the events 
he asserted to have judged were racing events in which he was not judging the work of other 
entrepreneurs or executives in their business capacities. He also acknowledged the evidence regarding 
the I !Ceremony," for which the Petitioner asserted that he served as a judge for several 
awards given to club members, including 'I I' and l I' 
However, as with the awards related to automotive events, he found that the evidence does not show 
that, in this role, the Petitioner was judging the business work of other executives. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits new evidence consisting of certificates which are not signed but 
include the seal of the I I Club. Each of these, one for every year from 2010 to 2018, includes 
a statement that the Petitioner served as a judge at these events, and in particular for awards for "most 
1 While many of the English translations accompanying these articles are incomplete, the evidence is sufficient to determine 
that several of the articles are about the Petitioner. 
3 
potential young entrepreneur," "most contribution member," and "best cooperative brand." They also 
include lists of the awardees in every year, as well as the criteria for each award. 
We first note that the certifications are not supported by independent documentary evidence of the 
criteria used for these awards, the individuals who served as judges, and the fields in which the 
recipients are engaged. In addition, the information in these certificates is inconsistent with previously 
submitted evidence in the record. An article which appears to be a social media post by the club 
describes the 2013 I I Ceremony and lists the members who won several awards, including 
"Best Newcomers," "Best Tolerance," "Most Potential Young Entrepreneur," and "Most Temperate 
Entrepreneur" among others. We note that in the list of winners for the "Most Potential Young 
Entrepreneur" award, two of the five names listed in the article are different from those listed on the 
certificate pertaining to the 2013 ceremony. In addition, whereas the certificate lists eight winners of 
the "Best Manner" award, the article lists four names under two separate awards, "Best Tolerance" 
and "Most Temperate Entrepreneur," and again not all of the names are the same between the two 
documents. Further, another certificate initially submitted includes the same names as those listed in 
the article, but lists the winners of the "Most Temperate Entrepreneur" award in the article as receivers 
of the "Most Distinguished Entrepreneur" award. The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies in 
the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 
I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because of the lack of such evidence, both to resolve these factual 
discrepancies and corroborate information in the certificates issued by the company founded and run 
by the Petitioner, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he has participated as a judge of 
the work of others in his field. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions to the field, but also that those contributions have been of major significance. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Director found that while the evidence may have shown the Petitioner's original contribution to 
the field of business, the creation of a new business model, it did not establish the major significance 
of this contribution. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider evidence of 
his contributions to the exotic car industry and automobile culture in China, and refers to additional 
reference letters not specifically addressed in the Director's decision, as well as media reports about I lclub. 
The first reference letter, which was analyzed by the Director in his decision, was written byl I 
I O J of the University of~-----~ Whilel I states that he "knew 
[the Petitioner] several years," he does not indicate in what ca=acitfc he knew the Petitioner or how he 
became familiar with the specifics of his operation ofl Club. He goes on to state that the 
Petitioner is an expert in the field of "automotive public relatjons," and was the first to introduce "the 
concept of super car club." I lalso states that the Petitioner's focus on privacy for his 
elite clients was an innovation, and mentions that the business also focuses on "extended services" 
4 
such as ~ustomization, loan services andl !security. In addition, he writes that other super 
car clubs have failed because they did not focus on I I or did not offer the extended services as 
the Petitioner has, so that I I Club "occupies the top position in super club ranking." 
Another letter was submitted by I l who indicates that he holds several positions in government 
and volunteer organizations. I I describes the Petitioner as "an entref reneur in the automobile 
industry in China," and commends his organization of the I _ activity and its goals of 
"deepen[ing] the public's knowledge of car culture and encourage the people to donate for public 
causes." He also states that by encouraging club members to donate to charitable causes, the Petitioner 
"has chanrd the perception of super car clubs from a wealth showoff to a caring, socially responsible 
industry."._ ___ _,further notes the Petitioner's collaboration with I I to design 
special edition watches bearing! !Club branding, stating that this is indicative of the club's 
global reputation. 
In addition, a letter was submitted I I founder of an automobile dealer group in I l the ~ China where the Petitioner's business is also based. I lstates that there were very few 
L_Jcar owners in China when the Petitioner began his business in 2007, but even though other clubs 
have arisen which have successfully imitated! !Club, it "is in a stronger position than all 
these clubs because of its unique services and well-established networks." He also indicates that the 
club is differentiated from other super car clubs in its professional staff, strict membership guidelines, 
and collaboration with luxury brands. I I concludes that the Petitioner "changed an entire field" 
and "enhanced the sales of super cars in China." 
These letters indicate that the Petitioner built a successful business that was among the D supercar 
clubs in China, which is generally supported by media evidence in the record. For example, an article 
published on auto.sohu.com datedl ,I 2016, is accompanied by a partial English translation 
which states that other super car clubs "were more or less affected" by I I Club and that 
many now "exist in name only." The article also states that the club will be "China's first luxury car 
club to enter the capital market." However, while I ~ s letter stresses that the success of I I Club was built upon its offering of other services, the record does not indicate that other 
supercar clubs in China have followed this business model by similarly offering extended services and 
partnering with luxury brands. While the Petitioner's business model may be unique, he has not 
established that this model has been adopted by other entrepreneurs or has become widespread even 
amongst the small group of other supercar club founders in China. 
In addition, the assertions inl Is letter about the Petitioner's impact on the exotic car industry 
and sales in China are not supported by documentary evidence. In his appeal brief, the Petitioner 
s ecifically refers to an interview of him that was published onl l.auto.sohu.com onl I 
1 n took place at thel I Auto Show. In the interview, the Petitioner is asked to describe 
Club, its membership requirements, local events it has staged, and sales of supercars in L..,-----,------, the ~-~ area. Both the nature of the Petitioner's responses and the local scope of the website 
where the interview was published show that the Petitioner is considered to be a local expert in exotic 
cars in thd O I area, but do not establish the significance of his contribution to the field as a 
whole. Further, while he mentions in this interview that a certain number of luxury cars have been 
sold in conjunction with thel !Auto Show, the Petitioner's statement is not sufficient to support 
I Is assertion regarding his impact on the sales of supercars in China overall. 
5 
Further, the Petitioner's assertions on appeal that he has "raise[d] the level of automobile-related 
awareness, education, study, investment, and technical expertise in China" are not supported by the 
evidence to which he refers. For example, althoufhl I mentions in his letter that the 
Petitioner established 'I which employs very experienced domestic and 
foreign engineers and mechanics," this does not support the Petitioner's assertion that his efforts have 
increased technical automotive expertise in China. Whatl ~ letter, and other supporting 
evidence, demonstrates is that the Petitioner provides automotive maintenance and customization 
services to the members o~ I club. There is no indication that the Petitioner has established 
training programs or that the impact of these services extends beyond his clients. More importantly, 
even were this assertion proven to be accurate, the Petitioner has not shown how this would connote 
a contribution of major significance to the field of business or entrepreneurship. 
Similarly, while the e:ide:ce lrds some support to the Petitioner's claim to have raised awareness of 
supercars througH._~~~-_.Club' s events, at least in the[ area, he has not shown how this 
has impacted other entrepreneurs or been of major significance in the field of business. 
For all of the reasons stated above, upon review we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The evidence establishes that as the founder ofl I Club, the Petitioner has performed in a 
leading or critical role with respect to this company. In addition, the record includes media reports of 
the company's activities which demonstrate that it enjoys a distinguished reputation. As such, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not demonstrate 
the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6695682 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a karate competitor in the field of martial arts, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met the 
requirements of at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner 
appealed the decision, asserting that his awards received at national and international karate 
competitions qualify as one-time achievements, and alternatively that he meets seven of the ten 
evidentiary criteria. In our appeal decision, we found that the evidence did not establish that he met 
any of the criteria, or that any of his awards rose to the level of a major, internationally recognized 
award. 
The Petitioner now submits new evidence with his combined motion to reopen and reconsider, but has 
not included a statement indicating which criteria he intends this evidence to support, or that supports 
his motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for 
the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in national and international karate tournaments since a young age, and 
intends to continue to compete in the United States. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Although the Petitioner indicated in Part 2 of Form I-
290B that he is filing a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider, he has not included a statement 
identifying how or where our previous decision incorrectly applied law or policy, or that it was 
incorrect based upon the evidence in the record at the time it was issued. The Petitioner has therefore 
not met the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and his motion will be dismissed. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As noted above, the Petitioner has submitted evidence with his motion, much of which has not been 
previously submitted. Although he has not submitted a statement indicating which criteria this 
evidence is intended to support, we will nevertheless consider this evidence as it pertains to the 
relevant criteria. 
The Petitioner has submitted partial copies of books he has authored, together with English 
translations. This evidence verifies his authorship of these books, which we acknowledged in our 
previous decision, albeit with the titles translated somewhat differently than in the initial evidence. 
Review of this evidence confirms our previous finding that these books cannot be considered to be 
qualifying scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). In general, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in that field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.1 Here, the title pages and content of both books indicate that they include basic 
information about karate techniques and rules, and are intended for students. Therefore this evidence 
does not overcome our previous finding that the Petitioner has not authored scholarly articles in the 
field of martial arts. 
Evidence is also submitted regarding awards the Petitioner has received in karate competitions, but 
this evidence was already in the record and is thus not documentary evidence of new facts as required 
under the motion to reopen regulations at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). While the Petitioner includes what 
appear to be new statements regarding these competitions and awards, these are descriptive of the 
events and evidence submitted and do not provide new evidence that the awards he received are 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
In addition, the Petitioner includes a reference letter with his motion, written by his coach and father. 
The letter provides a summary of his father's accomplishments in the field of martial arts, as well as a 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFAf) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
brief description of the Petitioner's training regimen, and is accompanied by extensive evidence about 
his father and his career. His father concludes that the Petitioner is a "high level" and "unique" athlete 
due to his training and skills, and "is famous in the Republic of I I and in the international 
sphere of karate." However, this letter does not specifically address the requirements of any of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Further, to the extent it supports the Petitioner's 
claim to sustained national or international acclaim, it is not sufficiently corroborated by documentary 
evidence in the record, and the Petitioner has not established that he meets the initial evidentiary 
requirements needed to reach the final merits determination where such a claim would be analyzed. 
Accordingly, upon review of the new evidence submitted with the Petitioner's motion to reopen, we 
find that it does not show that he meets the requirements of at least three of the evidentiary criteria, 
and thus does not demonstrate his eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. Further, the new documentary 
evidence submitted does not overcome the findings in our previous decision and establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility for the requested benefit. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6483909 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a retail business consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner subsequently submitted a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider, including new evidence in support of his asserted original contributions of major 
significance to the field of retail business. In his decision to dismiss the motion, the Director found 
that the requirements for filing a motion had not been met. He also concluded that the Petitioner had 
not established that the previous decision was incorrect based upon the evidence of record at the time 
of filing. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director improperly dismissed the motion based 
upon the requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C), and that he failed to consider the new evidence 
submitted with the motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the decision of the 
Director and remand for further action consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new 
decision. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit may be granted. 
In addition, general filing requirements for a motion are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii), stating 
in pertinent part: 
(iii) Filing Requirements-A motion shall be submitted on Form I-290B and may be 
accompanied by a brief It must be: 
(C) Accompanied by a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable 
decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, 
nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding; 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded in his denial decision that the Petitioner met two of the requisite three 
alternative criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles 
and his leading or critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation. On motion, the 
Petitioner submitted several reference letters and other evidence which he asserted showed his original 
contributions of major significance to the retail business field. He also asserted that evidence which 
had been submitted in support of other criteria demonstrated how he has been able to share his work 
with that of others in the field, thus expanding the scope and significance of his contributions. 
The Director included the motion to reconsider requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) in his decision 
to dismiss the combined motion; however, he did not include the motion to reopen requirements, or a 
citation to the section of the regulations including those requirements. More importantly, the Director 
acknowledged the submission of new evidence in support of the motion to reopen, but did not provide 
an analysis of whether it met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Rather, he 
concluded without analysis that the evidence did not show that the Petitioner met the overall 
requirements for an individual of extraordinary ability, despite not having first determined that the 
requisite three alternative evidentiary criteria had been met. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Also, while the Director included a citation to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C) which refers to a required 
statement regarding judicial proceedings, he did not state whether this filing requirement had been 
met. As noted by the Petitioner on appeal, the required statement was included in the first paragraph 
of his motion brief 
Because the Director did not fully explain the reasons for his decision on the Petitioner's motion, the 
Petitioner was not provided an opportunity to contest the decision, nor can we conduct a meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i),(iii) (providing that the director's decision must explain 
the specific reasons for denial and notify the affected party of appeal rights); Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N 
Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must be clear to allow the affected 
party a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Accordingly, we are 
remanding for the Director to consider the new evidence submitted by the Petitioner with his motion 
to reopen, as well as the Petitioner's arguments concerning the relevance of other evidence in the 
2 
record to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and for the issuance of a new decision including 
sufficient analysis to afford the Petitioner the opportunity to present a meaningful appeal. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for farther 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6713343 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 6, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a go player and teacher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner subsequently appealed the Director's decision, and we 
found that he met one of the ten criteria, relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others 
in his field. In his motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits new evidence and asserts that he meets 
three additional criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror the Board of Immigration 
Appeals' (the Board) definition of "new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c)(l) (stating that a motion to reopen 
will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could not have been discovered or 
presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do not require the evidence of a 
"new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable . Instead, we interpret "new facts" 
to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been previously 
submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously stated facts 
or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." 
The requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a go player and teacher at the I I Go Center, competing in tournaments, 
organizing events and instructing students. With his motion to reopen, he submits evidence which he 
asserts relates to three criteria in addition to the judging criterion, each of which we consider below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As indicated above, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary 
evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Regarding this criterion, the Petitioner first refers to documents 
showing the results of the I k Go Tournament, also known as thel I 
Cup, which he indicates shows that players participating in the "Main Championship," in which he 
lost in the final round, are more highly rated than those in the "Ranked Block." While we acknowledge 
that this appears to be the case, 1 this evidence was previously submitted with the Petitioner's initial 
filing, and as such is not new evidence. Similarly, the Petitioner's reference to other previously 
submitted evidence in his motion brief does not satisfy the requirements of a motion to reopen. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence to establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion on his ranking and rating by the American Go 
Association (AGA). As a threshold issue, he addresses our finding in the previous decision that this 
ranking cannot be considered to be a type of qualifying membership under this criterion. However, in 
his rebuttal on motion, the Petitioner again references previously submitted evidence, in this case the 
AGA tournament rules which were submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). 
He has therefore not submitted new evidence to overcome our previous finding in this regard. 2 
The Petitioner goes on to assert that his AGA rating, which places him fairly high in the amateur ranks, 
"reflects that the [G]o player has risen to the level of outstanding achievements." He refers to a 
previously submitted letter from the president of the AGA, who states that a player of the Petitioner's 
rating "can sometimes beat a weaker Asian pro," and also refers to new evidence showing that in the 
2018 US Go Open Masters tournament, two top-ranked professionals lost games to lower ranked 
professional and top-ranked amateur opponents. We first note that the plain language of this criterion 
focuses on requirements for membership, rather than the relative skill levels of members. In addition, 
1 The Petitioner resubmits this evidence in response to what he perceives to be an incorrect implication in our previous 
decision. However, we note that regardless of the go rating of the players against whom the Petitioner competed, our 
previous decision noted that it is the recognition of the prize or award he received that is the issue under this criterion. The 
Petitioner has not submitted new evidence to establish the national or international recognition of his! !placing in 
this tournament, or of the other prizes or awards he has received as a go player. 
2 We nevertheless note that section VI.A I.a of the mies, under "Ratings and ranks," states that "A rating is a numerical 
expression of playing strength assigned to each AGA member by the Ratings Coordinator." This statement clearly 
indicates that membership and rating are separate and unrelated statuses within the AGA. 
2 
the Petitioner's argument regarding outstanding achievements is moot because he has not established 
that even if his rating did result from outstanding achievements, it can be considered to be a 
membership for purposes of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In our previous decision, we found that although one article published in the I !Evening News 
was about the Petitioner and his work as a go player, the evidence did not establish that this 
newspaper's circulation is sufficient to qualify it as a major medium in comparison to other media. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits evidence regarding the circulation of two newspapers, The Boston 
Globe and The Guardian, and asserts that a comparison with the previously submitted figures of the I !Evening News shows that it qualifies as a major medium. However, the evidence does not 
indicate that either of these publications are published in Chinese or distributed in China, where the I !Evening News is published. As indicated in our previous decision, circulation figures are key 
to our determination of whether a publication can qualify as a "major trade publication or other major 
media," but they must be consideredlin the ~roper context. The comparison of circulation figures of 
"the only metropolitan newspaper in " to that of a regional newspaper in the United States or 
a nrionall~j distributed newspaper in the United Kingdom does not demonstrate that, in its market, 
the Evening News can be considered as a major medium. Therefore, this new evidence does 
not establish that the material published about the Petitioner and his work appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need not conduct a final merits determination to consider whether he 
has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established through the submission of new facts 
that he meets the initial evidence requirements as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25983002 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior project manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. We decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3(b ). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to judging and high salary, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards, 
membership, original contributions of major significance, and leading or critical role criteria. After 
reviewing all the evidence, we conclude the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies the requirements 
of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 4 
Here, the Petitioner rovided evidence indicatin that received an award for "Outstandin Product 
Design" from m 
February 2020. The Petitioner also submitted various screenshots from I !website that focus on 
the organization's yearly conferences, but this documentation does not relate to his specific award or 
demonstrate its significance in the field of endeavor. The record does not include evidence 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers should first 
"[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which evidence 
submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of 
evidence"). 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers should 
evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence. the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 Id. 
2 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's award was recognized by the field in general rather than mainly 
limited to I I conference participants. Nor does the evidence show that any media coverage or 
attention relating to the Petitioner's award rises to the level of national or international recognition. 
Without further evidence regarding its national or international significance in his field, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his award is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence 
in the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he is a member of the Institute of Electrical 
and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). He also presented information about the IEEE's membership 
criteria. The Director determined that these criteria (including years of experience, publication of 
papers, or development of courses) did not rise to the level of outstanding achievements. The 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination on appeal. Without evidence indicating that 
the selection process for IEEE requires outstanding achievements and that admission to membership 
is judged by recognized national or international experts, we agree with the Director and conclude that 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner provided letters of support from colleagues discussing his 
projects for his employer and its clients. The Director addressed each of these letters and determined 
that they did not show the impact of the Petitioner's work at a level indicating original contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner requests that we consider updated recommendation letters from three 
of his colleagues. As discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor 
does the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific 
"original" contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of 
major significance. 
A letter from O-P-, a senior technology architect with N-M-Inc., states that he and the Petitioner 
worked together at N-M-for six years. O-P-asserts that the Petitioner's work is "of major significance 
in his overall field due to his original contribution in building niche product/process not only in N-M-
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
3 
Inc., but with other organizations as well like H-Inc. who got benefited with [the Petitioner's] highly 
experienced problem-solving skills."6 Here, the lack of specific, detailed information does not show 
how the Petitioner's past work at N-M-Inc. or H-Inc. constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. In addition, while 0-P-contends that 
the Petitioner's work in machine learning and artificial intelligence helped build a process technology 
that N-M-utilizes for servicing thousands of its customers/users seamlessly, he does not explain how 
this technology has impacted the overall field rather than being limited to N-M-' s customers and users. 
In his letter, A-A-, a senior product engineering manager with C-company, asserts that the Petitioner 
has contributed to C-company, a technology services and consulting business, as a subject matter 
expert in its cloud automation/integration engineering department. A-A indicates that the Petitioner 
helped his "department to achieve best performing revenue earning in C-company. [The Petitioner] 
developed multiple products for C-company ( such as I 
I I etc.) used by C-company clients for their business needs with reduced cost and quick to 
market." The Petitioner's evidence, however, does not show that his work on these products has 
affected his industry in a substantial way or otherwise constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Nor has the Petitioner demonstrated that his original contributions at C­
company have influenced the information technology industry to the extent that they are of major 
significance in his field. 
Additionally, a letter from G-M-, a researcher with M-M-company, states that the Petitioner 
"conducted a few conferences in my company . . . . He explained how we can upgrade our technology 
to take benefits using machine learning and artificial intelligence. He showed his previously 
developed products used by his company and their clients to fulfill goals of fixing repetitive problems 
using AI & machine learning." G-M-further asserts that M-M-company "started using [the 
Petitioner's] ideas in our company and getting better result in very short span of time," but he did not 
offer specific examples of how Petitioner's work has risen to the level of a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Here, the letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high 
impact that the Petitioner's work has had in the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att 'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient information and evidence demonstrating that 
his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
6 The Petitioner's resume indicates that he has worked on a project for H-Inc. since July 2021. 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
8 Id. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, a(J'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 9 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a leading or critical role for C-company.10 
His appellate submission includes a letter from D-R-, a human resources representative with C­
company, stating: 
As Manager-Projects, [the Petitioner] was responsible for critical [sic] in his field and 
for organizations (C-company and clients). He was responsible for completing the 
project lifecycle including project planning, scope/ schedule/ resource/ 
finance/stakeholder management and cross functional team management. He was 
responsible for planning project approach .... 
As Sr. Manager -Projects, [the Petitioner] is responsible for critical [sic] in his field 
and for organizations (C-company and clients). He is responsible for technical 
delivery of portfolios that span a broad range of systems and wide spectrum of 
technologies. He is responsible for the growth of client relationship and rapid business 
expansion within assigned accounts. 
The Petitioner also points to the letter from A-A-which asserts that the Petitioner "is one of our 
topmost performing critical employees in C-company." A-A-further states: 
I witness many projects in past where C-company stake was on risk, we were almost 
losing business to other competitors due to high escalation from client related to work 
deliverables, tight timeliness and team management/orchestration issues .... As soon 
as we deployed [the Petitioner] for helping existing project team, we started getting 
good results day-to-day. . . . [The Petitioner] helped us in understanding grass root 
problems, motivate/ orchestrate project team to take best out of them . . . . We saved 
multiple such projects in past because of [the Petitioner's] excellence in his field .... 
While the letters from D-R-and A-A-indicate that the Petitioner has effectively managed his 
"assigned accounts" and "projects," their statements are not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's role for C-company was leading or critical. Their letters help show that the Petitioner 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
10 Here, the Petitioner claims a leading or critical role for his company rather than for a department or division within his 
company. Furthermore. even ifhe had claimed a leading or critical role for his particular department, which he has not, 
he has not demonstrated that it has a distinguished reputation. 
5 
performed in a leading or critical role for his particular accounts and projects, but they do not show 
that his role was leading or critical for the company. For example, the Petitioner did not provide an 
organizational chart or other similar evidence to establish where his role fit within the overall hierarchy 
of C-company to demonstrate a leading role. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that he has 
contributed to C-company in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of its business 
operations.11 For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
We withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. In order to meet 
this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative to the 
compensation paid to others working in the field. 12 The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion 
based on his salary with C-company as a senior project manager. In response to the Director's request 
for evidence (RFE), he provided his 2021 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, showing earnings of 
$118,355.78. The Petitioner's RFE response also included an October 2022 email from C-company 
stating that his salary was set to increase to $137,817.00 that same month. This salary increase, 
however, post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
As evidence that his salary is high relative to others in the field, the Petitioner presented information 
from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) showing mean hourly wages for broad occupational 
groups such as management, business and financial operations, computer and mathematical, and 
architecture and engineering. In addition, he provided salary data from CareerOneStop.org, 
Indeed.com, and Glassdoor.com showing mean and median salary data for the positions of project 
management specialist, senior project manager, and senior manager. Regarding mean and median 
salary data, the Petitioner must submit evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field rather than a salary that is above average or 
that places him in the top half of his field. While the information from CareerOneStop.org and 
Glassdoor.com also shows a salary range from low to high, the Petitioner's earnings of $118,355.78 
falls below the high range in both instances. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that the broad BLS occupational groups and project 
management specialist position represent proper bases for comparison. The Petitioner must present 
evidence showing that he has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison 
with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also 
Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary 
information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. 
INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner has not established that the 
11 For instance, the Petitioner has not shown that the amount of revenue generated from the specific projects he has managed 
represents a significant percentage of C-company's reported earnings. 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
6 
comparative salary data he offered shows that his earnings are high relative to others in his field. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-K-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITIONER FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has a one-time achievement (a major, internationally 
recognized award) or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and maintains that she satisfies four of the 
evidentiary criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, and 
so must show that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In her 
decision, the Director found that the Petitioner met only the display criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also satisfies the requirements of the 
criteria relating to media about her, contributions of major significance, and leading or critical role. 
We will analyze the evidence submitted under each of these criteria below. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director's decision found the evidence to be insufficient to establish that any of the magazine and 
Internet articles that were about the Petitioner and her work qualified as professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. The Petitioner provided several articles pertaining to her 2015 
debut, solo photographic exhibition which took place at in 
An article published in the digital and print editions of VEOIR magazine discusses themes the 
Petitioner explores in the exhibition 's photographs of the model _____ such as the demise 
2 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
of human civilization and the destruction of the planet. A press release form the webpage 
www.loeildelaphotographie.com, a news and events aggregator, states that the Petitioner's exhibit is 
"a radical denunciation of society and its behavior." A press release on the webpage www.from­
paris.com indicates that the exhibition will take place during and is comprised of 
25 works in which the Petitioner "denounces in a radical way the modes of behavior" of our society. 
This press release also states that ________ presents the works "of emerging and 
confirmed artists." 
As noted by the Director, the comparative data regarding the circulation and viewership figures of the 
above publications does not establish that these publications qualify as professional or major trade 
publications or other major. The Petitioner provided a media kit from VEOIR magazine which 
indicates it is a biannual fashion magazine based in New York. It claims its first issue "gained 3000+ 
followers on Facebook and 1,000+ followers on Instagram," and that it is "estimated to print 5000+ 
copies." The record lacks evidence, however, to corroborate the circulation figures provided by 
VEOIR's publisher or to demonstrate the significance of the figures. 
Regarding the website www.loeildelaphotographie.com, information submitted from the webpage 
www.similarweb.com indicates that it had 179,000 total visits in the first six months of 2018, ranking 
it 23,016 in France. Regarding the website www.from-paris.com, information from the webpage 
www.siteworthtraffic.com indicates that it had 210,605 total annual visits, and its "Global Traffic 
Rank is 1, 779,020." The comparative data regarding the circulation and viewership figures of 
www.loeildelaphotographie.com and www.from-paris.com do not establish that these publications 
qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major. Further, we note that the press 
releases published on those sites do not provide the author's name, as required by the plain language 
of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles that mention her work on photo shoots of vintage dress 
collections by the designer in 2012 during at the 
store in 2012, and in 2016. The articles were published on webpages such as 
www.vogue.ru and www.buro247.ru. However, these articles are not about the Petitioner, but about 
the dress collections. 1 For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has she made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner may 
show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. The Director 
determined that the record did not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The Petitioner 
1 In addition, regarding the webpage ,vww.buro247.com, the website metrics from www.similarweb.com do not provide 
comparative analyses, and, therefore, do not establish that this webpage qualifies as a professiona l or major trade 
publication or other major media. 
3 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
submitted several testimonial letters in support of the petition. We determine that the submitted letters 
and other documentary evidence do not satisfy this criterion. 
The letters submitted by the Petitioner generally praise her work and highlight what the authors 
describe as her unique use of the camera and medium format photography. For example, 
a production designer, states she became acquainted with the Petitioner's work 
through the Petitioner's project which focuses on the homeless population in 
She calls the Petitioner's use of a medium format camera "an original and unique 
contribution to the photography world." 
a professor of set and costume design at the 
in Russia, states that in 2016 she invited the Petitioner to teach a "master class" on the use of 
medium format photography in the fashion industry. She credits the Petitioner with the "introduction 
of medium format photography ... for fashion publication editorials and covers." She claims that few 
photographers choose to work with the camera required for the technique, because it "is large, requires 
skill in handling, and it takes photographs slowly." She states that the class was "an invaluable 
experience" for the students and "should be replicated in other areas to increase the awareness of this 
important and underutilized format." However, and did not 
demonstrate how the Petitioner's medium format photography significantly impacted or influenced 
the field. The Petitioner did not show, for example, that the overall field considers her work to be of 
major significance. 2 
a fashion coordinator with states that the Petitioner has worked 
with the magazine on a number of projects. She describes her as "a fashion photographer and a fine­
art photographer" with "incredible scope." She notes that the Petitioner has worked for "some of the 
top international brands and fashion magazines in Russia and abroad, for whom she has contributed 
beautiful magazine covers, photo editorials, advertisements, and photographic accompaniments." She 
credits the Petitioner's skillful use of medium format photography for "a striking effect of realism" in 
her photographs. While she praised the Petitioner's work, did not identify original 
contributions or show how the field has been greatly impacted or influenced by the work. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack specifics and 
use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 Moreover , USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
2 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/PolicyManua l.html; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F .3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
4 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
In addition, while the record indicates that the Petitioner's photographs have been used in 
advertisements for companies such as telecommunications and the 
and have appeared on the covers and in editorials of fashion magazines such as Vogue Russia, Marie 
Claire Russia, Interview Russia, OK!, Aeroflot Style, and Officiel, it does not establish that having her 
work displayed in this manner constitutes a contribution to the field of photography. 5 
The record also shows that the Petitioner has had success more recently as a fine art photographer, 
which is supported by the evidence of local media coverage of her solo exhibition in 
While having that exhibition displayed at is notable, as mentioned 
previously, the press release from the webpage www.from-paris.com indicates the venue presents the 
works of emerging artists along with those of established artists. This evidence does not demonstrate, 
therefore, the venue's recognition or reputation in the field of photography, and thus that the display 
of the Petitioner's work there is considered to be a contribution of major significance. Further, her 
work has been offered for sale by online art gallery, but this evidence does not demonstrate 
that her work has influenced the broader field of photography. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that invitations for her to teach at the 
and the in are "a sign of the industry reputation that [the 
Petitioner] carries for her significant contribution .... [in] bringing medium format photography into 
the industry." As discussed previously, while it appears from the evidence that the Petitioner is one 
of a few fashion photographers using the camera and medium format photography in her 
work, the significance of her use of this technique in the field has not been established. For instance, 
indicates that replication of the Petitioner's technique will "increase the awareness 
of this ... underutilized format," indicating that her methods, while unique, have not been influential 
in the field. Further, regarding the Petitioner's position with the a 2016 press 
release for the school's opening event lists her as an instructor, but does not mention her contributions 
in the field. 6 While the originality of the Petitioner's artistic work as a photographer is not in question, 
the record does not establish that it has impacted the work of others in the field. Based on the above, 
the Petitioner has not established that the evidence satisfies this criterion. 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner provides media kits dated 2018 for the fashion magazines Marie Claire and Vogue Russia to 
show their reach. 
6 This press release, published on the website wvvw.posta -magazine.ru, indicates that the school's staff will include 
film/theater stars, famous photographers, sports coaches, and professiona l teachers. It includes a photograph of the 
Petitioner among those of its staff. 
5 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 294.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the requirements of this criterion. Upon review 
of the record, specifically the evidence regarding the Petitioner's exhibition we agree with 
the Director's finding. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that she has served in a critical role for telecommunications and Marie 
Claire Russia magazine. She indicates that she has performed in a leading role in an episode of the 
television series and in fundraising efforts through her project 
The scope of this evidentiary criterion focuses on the relative importance of the 
Petitioner's role for distinguished organizations. In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role 
itself, and a critical role is one in which the petitioner contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided a letter from the marketing director of 
an event production company in who states that in 2013 the Petitioner won the company's 
contest to work on an advertising campaign for its client a Russian telecommunications 
company. 7 The marketing director indicates that the Petitioner worked on a photoshoot with the 
popular singer to promote new 4G technology, that was "very happy with 
the end result," and that the campaign was "important for to get a much larger contract 
with Although the Petitioner argues that this letter is evidence that she played a critical role 
for , the representative's statement that was "very happy" with the campaign does not 
indicate the Petitioner served in a critical role for In addition, the record does not document 
the manner in which marketing director is authorized to represent or speak on behalf of 
nor does it contain evidence from any individual who appears to be in a position to represent 
In addition, the Petitioner states on appeal that she played a critical role for the fashion magazine Marie 
Claire Russia in providing photography for the feature article in its tenth 
anniversary edition. The Petitioner offered the previously discussed letter from stating 
that the Petitioner provided "the magnificent photos of the men profiled" in the article. She states that 
"[w]e only rarely have the honor of working with [the Petitioner] , as she is always in high demand," 
and she notes that the magazine 's "journalists and models request [the Petitioner] by name as the 
photographer for their editorials and articles." 
Although and the marketing director of speak highly of the Petitioner 's work 
for their organizations , their letters do not establish that she was responsible for the companies ' success 
or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning of having performed in a "critical" role for them. 
7 We note that the marketing director's name is not legible because an ink stamp was placed over it. 
.
Matter of A-K-K-
The letters show that her work was consistent with that of a professional photographer, and they 
describe her as having achieved results that met or exceeded those companies' expectations. While a 
company's staff may consider the Petitioner's achievements to be of great benefit to the company, the 
focus of this criterion, based on the plain language of the regulation, is the Petitioner's role itself The 
letters do not establish that her role as a photographer has been a critical role for those companies. For 
example, while marketing director indicates that the Petitioner's work on the 
campaign was "important for us to get a much larger contract with and 
indicates that the Petitioner was a favorite photographer of her staff, their letters do not distinguish her 
position from those of the companies' other photographers, or demonstrate that she contributed in a 
way that was of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
In addition, as noted by the Director, the fact that she may have played a critical role in specific 
magazine editions or advertising campaigns is not sufficient to satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
We also note that the record does not provide any background information or documentation regarding 
to establish that it is an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also maintains that she performed a leading role in episode four, season five of 
The record contains articles from Wikipedia and the website www.vokrug.tv, indicating 
that in 2016 she was the photographer for that episode. We note that Wikipedia is an online, open 
source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. 
See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; see 
also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). Although the Petitioner indicates that she 
performed in a leading role as the photographer for that episode, the evidence indicates that the models 
played the leading roles in the show, not the Petitioner. Regardless, the plain language of the criterion 
requires evidence that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role "for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation." The Petitioner did not identify an organization 
or establishment for which her role in this television episode was leading or critical. 
Further, the Petitioner states on appeal that she played a leading role in the fundraising efforts of 
through her project which focuses on the homeless population in 
The record contains a letter from CEO of described as a 
social service agency, who states that her company is interested in partnering with the Petitioner to 
showcase her project to raise funds for the homeless. This letter does not indicate 
how the Petitioner has performed in a leading role for the organization. Finally, we note that the 
evidence submitted does not establish that has a distinguished reputation in the field. In 
light of the above, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we need not fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits 
determination . Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate , concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
Matter of A-K-K-
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her artistic accomplishments is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l36l;Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-K-K-, ID# 2648379 (AAO Apr. 8, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 8, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a lawyer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not established that his occupation "falls within the purview 
of 'the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics"' as set forth in section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that the Director did 
not properly evaluate his area of expertise. 
Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further action and consideration. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of J-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated that he was the managing lawyer of a Chinese law firm 
and "also the Beijing-based partner of an American law firm." He further stated: "My field of 
endeavor is Chinese intellectual property law, unfair competition, and international trade law, which 
are subsets of the field of business." The record included a May 2018 letter from 
founding partner of indicating that the Petitioner was 
selected for partner in that firm based on "his knowledge of Chinese business and intellectual property 
law." 
The Director issued a notice of intent to deny (NOID) informing the Petitioner that he had not 
established that his profession and intended employment fall "within the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics." In response, the Petitioner presented a June 2018 letter from stating: 
"[The Petitioner will not practice U.S. law as doing so requires admission to California Bar (or that of 
another state). Rather, [the Petitioner] will focus on business client acquisition and relationship 
development in assisting the firm to establish a niche China advisory practice." In addition, 
asserted that the Petitioner "will be charged with planning and research to develop the aims and 
objectives (including financial projections) of this practice area, preparing the message, and devising 
and overseeing strategies to attract prospects to invest trust in the firm. He will connect with contacts 
and cultivate relationships with both U.S. and Chinese companies. " ___ further indicated that 
2 
Matter of J-L-
the Petitioner "will provide strategic planning advice to U.S. companies seeking to operate or expand 
in China and to Chinese companies seeking to operate or expand in the United States." 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that "[t]he practice of law is a profession for purposes of 
eligibility for the EB-2 immigrant visa" and that "[t]he practice of a profession is not one of the fields 
within the EB-I category." The Director further indicated that "Congress specifically included 
members of the professions in sections 203(b)(2)(A) and 203(b)(3)(A)(ii), and excluded them from 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)" of the Act. 
As noted by the Petitioner, a 1995 legal opinion paper from the Office of General Counsel within the 
former Immigration and Naturalization Service indicated that "[t]he INA explicitly categorizes 
lawyers as professionals" and that "lawyers, as lawyers, do not qualify for EB-I immigrant visas." 1 
The opinion goes on to state that "[t]he fact that an alien is a lawyer, or belongs to one of the other 
professions, would not necessarily foreclose the alien's EB-I eligibility if the alien was also qualified 
as a person of 'extraordinary ability' in an EB-I occupation," and that "an alien who is of extraordinary 
ability in business or in some other EB-I endeavor would not be ineligible for EB-I classification 
simply because the alien is also a lawyer." Id. We note that General Counsel opinions are advisory 
in nature and are not binding. R.L Inv. Ltd. Partners v. INS, 86 F. Supp. 2d 1014. 1022 (D. Haw. 
2000). affd. 273 F.3d 874 (9th Cir. 2001). 
Regardless, here, we find that the information and evidence relating to the Petitioner's area of expertise 
and intended employment in the United States is sufficient to demonstrate that his occupation falls 
within the purview of"business" as set forth in section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. However, because 
the Director did not render a determination as to whether the Petitioner has received a major, 
internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we are remanding for him to consider whether the Petitioner has met his 
burden of proof with respect to these criteria. Furthermore, if the Director determines that the 
Petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We are remanding the petition for the Director to determine if the Petitioner has demonstrated 
eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 
2012). 
1 See Genco Op. No. 95-3 (INS), 1995 WL 1796310, entitled "Construction of 'sciences' and 'arts' in Section 203(b)(l) 
and (2): Reconsideration of our March 3, 1994, Legal Opinion." 
3 
Matter of J-L-
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for further 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision 
which, if adverse, shall be certified to us for review. 
Cite as Matter of J-L-, ID# 2622181 (AAO Apr. 8, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 08, 2024 In Re: 30518656 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled only one ( display at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii)) of the seven claimed categories of evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for five additional criteria. The Petitioner does 
not contest his previously claimed eligibility for the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). In addition, the Petitioner 
submits new evidence. Because the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide this evidence, we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l l) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because 
"the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial"). For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not 
establish he meets at least three categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 1 The 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 2 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his "Partner" membership with the 
National Association oflnterpreters (ANDI). Associations may have multiple levels of membership. 3 
The level of membership afforded to the person must show that in order to obtain that level of 
membership, recognized national or international experts judged the person as having attained 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
According to ANDI's "Corporate Bylaws," partner membership "is that natural person who, having 
the quality of Performer, has registered with ANDI through an application and who receives income 
through of society, derived from the exploitation of the interpretation of it" (Article 8). Moreover, to 
be registered in any member status of ANDI, an interested party must "[p]]rove your quality of 
Performer with any interpretation set in a material support or with a professional interpretation 
contract, as well as having generated royalties for the exploitation of the interpretations of it" (Article 
9). 
Although the Petitioner argues for a selective definition of "quality" from Merriam-Webster 
Dictionary as a "degree of excellence" or "superiority in kind," Merriam-Webster Dictionary contains 
other definitions of quality, such as "the character in a logical proposition of being affirmative or 
negative."5 Furthermore, the plain language of the bylaws does not require membership to have a 
degree of excellence or superiority of kind, as claimed by the Petitioner. Instead, the bylaws indicate 
the Performer to have "any interpretation set in a material support or with a professional interpretation 
contract" and not an excellent or superior interpretation. 
Similarly, the Petitioner provides a definition of "royalties" from Merriam-Webster Dictionary as "a 
payment to an author or composer for each copy of a work sold or to an inventor for each item sold 
under a patent" and claims that "[t]his is not simply received payment for services but, in fact, a 
financial arrangement in which a performer's creative contributions are deemed sufficiently significant 
to justify a periodical residual payment in relation to creative credit in a production." The Petitioner's 
assertions, however, are not supported by the plain language of ANDI's bylaws. The bylaws do not 
require a performer's royalties to be "sufficiently significant." Rather, the bylaws reflect that the 
performer to have only "generated royalties" and not sufficiently significant royalties. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that partner membership mandates outstanding 
achievements as a condition for membership with ANDI, as required by this regulatory criterion. 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
4 Id. (providing that as a possible example, general membership in an international organization for engineering and 
technology professionals may not meet the requirements of the criterion; however, if that same organization at the fellow 
level requires, in part, that a nominee have accomplishments that have, for example, contributed impmiantly to the 
advancement or application of engineering, science, and technology, and that a council of experts and a committee of 
current fellows judges the nominations for fellows, that higher, fellow level may be qualifying.) 
5 See www.merriam-webster.com. 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 6 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 7 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 8 
The record reflects the Petitioner provided 16 articles either posted online or printed in publications. 
At the outset, the Petitioner submitted an article posted on gather.com that is illegible and blurry, and 
we are unable to determine whether the article meets the regulatory criterion. In addition, 12 of the 
articles do not contain the regulatory requirement of the "title, date, and author of the material." 
Specifically, articles posted on hollwood411.medium.com, cnfmag.com, writerscafe.org, 
medium.com, reeltalkblogdotcom.wordpress.com, entertainmenthotspot.tumblr.com, 
realtyfilms.com, and metronoticias.com(2) do not include the required authors of the material. 9 
Furthermore, the articles posted on moviebegins.com and celebritytalkautstralia.wordpress.com (2) do 
not contain both the dates and authors of the material. 
Of the 3 remaining items, the La Razon article does not reflect published material about the Petitioner 
relating to his work. Instead, the article is about an adaptation of __________ at 
thel I In fact, the Petitioner is never mentioned in the article. The person 
and the person's work need not be the only subject of the material; published material that covers a 
broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person's work in the field and mentions the 
person in connection to the work may be considered material about the person relating to the person's 
work. 10 See also, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 
2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Likewise, the two 
articles posted on metronoticias.com, indicated above, report on the show without any mention of the 
Petitioner; and therefore, do not show published material about the Petitioner. 
Thus, the Petitioner submitted 2 articles (27prmedia.com and examiner.com) reflecting published 
material about the Petitioner relating to his work and including the required title, date, and author. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the articles were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience 
(for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership 
(for major trade publications and other major media). 11 The Petitioner submitted online traffic and 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
7 Id. 
8 Id. 
9 In some instances, the articles indicated the publications without identifying the actual authors. 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
11 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
rankings reflecting the websites garnered 50 unique users each day with a global ranking of 2.27M 
(27prmedia.com) and 2.1 K estimated traffic with a global ranking of 16.7K. Here, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the significance or relevance of these readership or viewership numbers to establish 
the major status of the websites. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets every element of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation 
paid to others working the field. 12 The Petitioner provided evidence of his compensation and offered 
comparative yearly and hourly salary information. However, the Petitioner did not submit the proper 
comparative data based on his type of compensation. Specifically, the Petitioner's earnings are based 
on remunerations from projects rather than receiving traditional hourly wages. This is confirmed 
based on the Petitioner's submission of an "Agent Statement" from I I 
which states "[the Petitioner's] earnings are not wages; rather, as a person who is primarily self-
employed they consist of fees, commissions and other compensation estimated to be earned from 
various projects during the visa period." Likewise, an "Artistic Performance Agreement" froml II Iindicates that "the Company hires Actor to provide artistic services for 
various projects and productions of Company through performances where he will be filmed 
portraying diverse characters in different roles and various capacities, and also as a voice actor for 
voiceovers." Thus, in order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
he has commanded significantly high remuneration for services rather than commanding a high salary 
since he does not receive an hourly or yearly salary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims he "provided evidence that the going rate for his voiceover acting 
work ranged from to [sic] $62 per hour to $1,000 per hour, with the rate of $500 per hour being the 
most prevalent." The record reflects the Petitioner submitted "VO Release" documents for various 
projects stipulating flat fees for project services, such as a session fee and usage fee received by the 
Petitioner. The documentation does not indicate the Petitioner would earn a per hour fee for each 
project. Again, the Petitioner's documentation shows a set fee amount for each project in which the 
Petitioner provides his services. For example, for the project entitled, _______ the 
Petitioner secured a flat $500 "Session Fee" and a $1,000 "Usage Fee" and did not earn a $500 or 
$1,000 per hour wage amount. 
Although the Petitioner submitted hourly and yearly salaries for actors from various sources, such as 
ZipRecruiter, Payscale, and bls.gov, the Petitioner did not compare his fees for services to other actors' 
fees for services. The comparison of hourly and yearly salaries is not the appropriate comparison 
when the Petitioner does not command an hourly and yearly salary. The Petitioner, for instance, did 
not submit evidence comparing his $500 session fee or $1,000 usage fee to others who receive 
compensation through fees for their services to show that he commands a significantly high 
remuneration for services. 
12 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
5 
Even if we compared his yearly earnings to others based on his documentation, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate he commanded a high salary. The Petitioner submitted IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax 
Statement, for 2017, 2018, and 2019 reflecting yearly earnings of $2,200, $7,800, and $19,600, 
respectively. 13 According to Ziprecruiter, the average salary for actors in California was $26,989, 
which is significantly more than the Petitioner earned. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
USCIS determines whether the person has enjoyed commercial successes in the erformin arts. 14 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his roles in 
andl 15 The Petitioner's RFE documentation reflects grossed $1 .4 9M 
I grossed $51K with an additional $244K in video sales, and __grossed $34K with an 
additional $71K in video sales. 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. 16 Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions 
would be insufficient, in and ofitself: to meet this criterion. 17 The evidence must show that the volume 
of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in 
similar pursuits in the performing arts. 18 
In this case, the Petitioner provided evidence of gross receipts for a movie released in the same year. 
Specifically, I-$1.49M v. The Angriest Man in Brooklyn (2014) -$127K and I- $51K v. Hank and Asha (2013) -$17K. The Petitioner did not make such a comparison 
for I 1(2017). The Petitioner's comparison of a single movie, which so happens to have lower 
gross sales, misconstrues the determination on whether his movies were commercially successful. A 
more accurate comparison, for instance, would be to compare the gross receipts of all movies released 
in a particular year or to compare a wide variety of films or even to compare the gross sales of movies 
in a certain category. In addition, the Petitioner did not offer any further information regarding his 
movies, such as operating costs or budgets, which may factor into whether a movie is commercially 
successful. For example, if a movie's budget was $IM but only grossed $SOOK, the movie may not 
be viewed as a commercial success. 
Without additional evidence, the Petitioner did not establish he has achieved commercial successes. 
13 The Petitioner also submitted a document indicating he earned $1,275 in 2020 and $1,125 in 2021 from ____ 
which is also substantially below the average yearly salaries for actors in California. 
14 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
15 In a supplemental brief on appeal, the Petitioner also claims, for the first time, eligibility based on his work inl I 
commercials and submits new evidence. We will not consider new eligibility claims and evidence that were not 
previously brought before the Director. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 1); Soriano, 19 T&N Dec. at 766. 
16 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
17 Id. 
IS Id. 
6 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 19 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies four additional categories of evidence, discussed above. 
Although the Petitioner also argues eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three under 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). We also need not provide the 
type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we 
reserve these issues. 20 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
19 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
20 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 8, 2024 In Re: 30590679 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial and investment analyst, seeks classification under the employment-based, 
first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
category makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens who demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and submit "extensive documentation" of their achievements' recognition in 
their fields . Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one initial evidentiary criteria -two less than required to obtain a final merits 
determination. The Director also found that the Petitioner did not demonstrate her intent to continue 
working in her field in the United States and willfully submitted false English translations of evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner denies that she intended to submit altered translations and asks us to review 
the Director's decisions regarding evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the record supports the Director's misrepresentation finding. By not raising 
one issue and not specifying errors in others, the Petitioner effectively waived challenge to the findings 
regarding her intent to work in the United States and her claims of meeting additional evidentiary 
criteria. We will therefore also dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary requirements above, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them 
among the small percentage at their field's very top. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Petitioner 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese native and citizen, earned a bachelor's degree in 
management in China and a master's degree in financial investment in Australia. After returning to 
China, she gained more than eight years of experience as a financial analyst and investment director. 
The Petitioner claims that, in Asia, she is "widely recognized" as a "leading expert" in financial 
analysis. She states that she has made "significant contributions" to the research and development of 
financial services and has "noteworthy achievements" integrating international financial exchanges. 
The record does not establish -nor does the Petitioner claim -her receipt of a major, international 
award. She must therefore meet at least three of the ten lesser evidentiary criteria. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner demonstrated her 
authorship of scholarly articles in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Thus, to obtain a final merits determination, the Petitioner must both demonstrate her intent to continue 
work in her field in the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act and satisfy at least two 
other evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). We first address the statutory requirement. 
B. Intent to Continue Working in the Field in the United States. 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a noncitizen must "seek[] to enter the United 
States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability." Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) of the Act. 
By regulation: 
the petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to 
the United States to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include 
1 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
letter(s) from prospective employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as 
contracts, or a statement from the [petitioner] detailing plans on how [they] intend[] to 
continue [their] work in the United States. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
The Petitioner stated that, in the United States, she would continue working in the financial analysis 
field. In response to the Director's notice of intent to deny (NOID) the petition, the Petitioner 
submitted a letter from a company offering her a U.S. job. The Director, however, questioned the 
letter's credibility and found no evidence of the Petitioner's acceptance of the purported offer. 
Because the Petitioner does not challenge this denial ground on appeal, we deem the issue to be 
"waived" and decline to review the Director's finding regarding her intent to work in the United States. 
See Rios v. Lynch, 807 F.3d 1123, 1125 n.1 (9th Cir. 2015) (declining to address an argument not 
advanced on appeal); see also Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter 
ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)) (same). Based on the unchallenged denial ground 
regarding the Petitioner's intent to work in her field in the United States, we will affirm the petition's 
denial. 
C. Misrepresentation 
Noncitizens who fraudulently or willfully misrepresent material facts in benefit requests cannot gain 
admission to the United States. Section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C)(i).2 
Misrepresentations are willful if they are "deliberately made with knowledge of their falsity." Matter 
ofMensah, 28 I&N Dec. 288, 293-94 (BIA 2021) ( citations omitted). A misrepresentation is material 
when it has a "natural tendency to influence, or [be] capable of influencing, the decision of the 
decision-making body to which it was addressed." Id. ( citing Kungys v. United States, 485 U.S. 759, 
771 (1988). Because of the potential, severe consequences to noncitizens, we must "closely 
scrutinize" findings of fraud or material misrepresentation. Matter of Y-G-, 20 I&N Dec. 794, 797 
(BIA 1994). 
The Director found that the Petitioner's evidence of her purported participation as a judge of others' 
work in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) contained "willfully altered" documents. The 
Petitioner submitted evidence that she judged two financial competitions. She provided printouts 
about the contests and letters inviting her to serve as a judge at the competitions and thanking her for 
her service. With a prior extraordinary ability petition, however, the Petitioner submitted these same 
original documents. The documents' initial English translations indicated that she judged the work of 
undergraduate, university students. The Director found that the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
2 Our determination regarding the misrepresentation determination against the Petitioner is a "finding of fact," not an 
admissibility determination. These proceedings are not the appropriate forum for dete1mining a noncitizen's 
admissibility. Matter ofChristo 's, 26 T&N Dec. at 540-41 (citing Matter of0-, 8 T&N Dec. 295, 296-97 (BIA 1959)). But 
USCTS decisions should include specific findings and conclusions on material issues of law or fact arising in a case, 
including findings of fraud or material misrepresentation. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(a)(l )(i); see also 5 U.S.C. § 557(c). After 
we enter a finding of fact here, USCIS or another agency may determine the Beneficiary's admissibility in separate 
proceedings. 
3 
requires proof ofjudging professionals, not students. In the current petition proceedings, the Director 
found that the English translations of the same documents "were altered to remove any mention of 
'students,' 'teachers,' 'college students,' and 'universities."' Because both the prior and current 
translations share the same translator, the Director reasoned that the discrepancies did not result from 
a different translator's interpretation of the documents. Thus, the Director found that the Petitioner 
altered the documents' translations in this and another prior petition to remove indications that she had 
judged the work of students, rather than professionals. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not deny the alterations to the translations. Rather, she contends that 
the changes resulted from a misunderstanding between her and her "assistant." In her NOID response, 
the Petitioner submitted a letter from her assistant, who prepared the response, and a copy of a text 
message she purportedly sent to him before this petition's filing. The text message states: 
The [USCIS] letter [regarding the Petitioner's first petition] mentioned that my 
involvement as a judge in 2 student competitions does not meet the required criteria. 
They stated that being a judge for student competitions is not acceptable. Therefore, 
please remove those instances and only include my role as a judge in competitions 
involving professionals. 
The Petitioner contends that she meant her text message to indicate her intent, in both a prior and the 
current petition, to abandon submitting evidence of her participation as a judge of others' work in the 
field. She stated: "What I mean is to delete the entire 'Judge Section' and not submit it as my 
evidence." In her assistant's letter, he stated: 
I mistakenly believed that I should delete the terms related to "students." I used the 
search function in [the word processing application] to remove these related terms. To 
my surprise, her actual intention was to completely remove the section about being a 
judge, as it did not meet the criteria and was not significant to her application .... Due 
to her high level of trust in me and the length of the document, she did not thoroughly 
review this part. 
The record, however, does not support the Petitioner's explanation. The text message does not indicate 
her purported intent to abandon trying to meet the judging criterion. Rather, the message instructs her 
assistant to "include my role as a judge in competitions involving professionals." If the Petitioner 
intended to abandon the criterion, she has not explained why she instructed her assistant to submit 
alternate evidence. See Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 749, 754 (9th Cir. 2008); Matter 
of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988) (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies). Also, as the Director found, none of 
the three extraordinary ability petitions that the Petitioner filed contain evidence that she judged 
professionals' work. Id. The Petitioner's explanation does not resolve the discrepancies in the English 
translations. Rather, the record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner knowingly submitted 
the false translations. 
The record also supports the materiality of the Petitioner's misrepresentation. We must examine 
misrepresentations under the circumstances existing when the false statements occurred. Canas v. 
INS, 243 F.3d 546 (Table) (9th Cir. 2000); Matter ofBosuego, 17 I&N Dec. 125, 128 (BIA 1979). At 
4 
the time of this petition's filing, the Petitioner did not yet know which evidentiary criteria USCIS 
would find that she meets or does not meet. Thus, her misrepresentation ofthe evidence regarding her 
participation as a judge of other's work "was predictably capable of affecting, i.e., had a natural 
tendency to affect, the official decision." Kungys, 485 U.S. at 771-72. 
Also, when signing the Form 1-140, Petition for Alien Workers, before the petition's filing, the 
Petitioner certified that she reviewed the petition and that all its information was "complete, true, and 
correct at the time of filing." The Petitioner's signature on the petition creates a "strong presumption" 
that she knew the filing's contents and assented to them. See Matter ofCastillo-Perez, 27 I&N Dec. 
664, 672 (BIA 2019). The statements of the Petitioner and her assistant that the Petitioner neglected 
to review the petition's relevant portion does not overcome the presumption that she knew the filing's 
contents. Matter of Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. at 500 ("Given the nature and significance of immigration 
documents, ... it is reasonable to expect that [ noncitizens] will take steps to ascertain the accuracy of 
documents they sign.") 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director also erred in finding insufficient evidence of her 
purported performance in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). She notes that, in her first petition, the Director found evidence not 
only of the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(vi) but also of her 
performance in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director, however, did not issue a precedent or adopted decision on the Petitioner's first petition. 
The decision therefore did not require the Director to follow the same findings in this or other petitions. 
See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.3(c), 103.lO(b) (requiring USCIS to follow only precedent decisions in 
proceedings involving the same issues); see also Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 
593, 597 (Comm'r 1988) (allowing the immigration service to deny petitions indicating eligibility 
"merely because of prior approvals which may have been erroneous"). We therefore find the 
Petitioner's argument unpersuasive. 
For the foregoing reasons, the record supports the Director's finding that, by submitting altered 
English translations of evidence, the Petitioner misrepresented material facts. 
D. Remaining Evidentiary Criteria 
As indicated above, the Petitioner states that she no longer seeks to meet the criterion regarding her 
participation as a judge of others in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Also, we have rejected 
her argument that she performed in a leading or critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner asks us to review whether she meets the 
following five other evidentiary criteria: 
• Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• Original contributions of major significance; 
• Commandment of a high salary; and 
• Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
5 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (ix), (x). 
On appeal, however, the Petitioner does not specify any errors in the Director's decisions regarding 
the five remaining evidentiary criteria. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) (requiring an appellant to 
"identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact"). Thus, as with the 
question of her intent to continue work in her field in the United States, we deem the issues of the 
remaining five evidentiary criteria to be "waived" and decline to review the Director's findings on 
them. See Rios, 807 F.3d at 1125 n.l; see also Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. 
Also, our decision regarding the Petitioner's intent to continuing working in her field in the United 
States resolves this appeal. Thus, even if she had specified errors and we could review the Director's 
decisions on the five remaining evidentiary criteria, we would have declined to reach those issues and 
would have instead reserved them. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their decisions); see also 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal 
where an applicant was otherwise ineligible). 
Further, as the Petitioner has not demonstrated satisfaction of at least three evidentiary criteria, USCIS 
need not conduct a final merits determination. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record supports the Petitioner's misrepresentation ofa material fact by submitting altered English 
translations of evidence. Also, she effectively waived challenge to the finding ofinsufficient evidence 
of her intent to continue working in her field in the United States. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-B-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits an additional document and a brief, arguing that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he is a development director for in Russia. 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the leading or critical criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and the record supports that conclusion. In addition, we find that the 
Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others and authored scholarly articles in a 
professional publication thereby satisfying the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Because the Petitioner has demonstrated that 
he fulfills three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated , by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination , we analyze a petitioner 's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
2 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received his "qualification of engineer" from 
in 2001 and obtained a doctor of philosophy from 
in 2004. In addition, the Petitioner indicates that after receiving his degrees, he was 
employed by various companies, such as the 
and . working on projects in the . Russia area. More 
recently, the Petitioner worked as a technology manager on an HlB (specialty occupation) visa for 
in the United States. Currently, the Petitioner is a 
development director for in Russia. As mentioned above, the Director 
found that the Petitioner performed in a leading role, and we determined that he has judged others 
within his field and authored scholarly articles. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3 d at 1121-22. The record reflects that he served 
as chairman of a judging committee for in 2009 to evaluate and select a 
museum consulting company for a reconstruction project, as well as a member of the judging 
committee for reconstruction of an opera and ballet theater. 2 However, the Petitioner did not establish 
how his judging experience places him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his chairmanship and membership on two 
judging committees compared to others at the top of the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that his judging experience contributes to a finding that he 
has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
While he served as a chairman and member of a committee for a private company approximately 10 
years ago, the Petitioner did not show that such judging capability is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did 
not demonstrate, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his service on 
two judging committees. 
Serving on a judging committee or participating in an internal review process related to a job does not 
automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
1 See also users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/PolicyManua l.html (stating that users officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classificat ion). 
2 While the Petitioner claimed that he also served on a judging committee at for two projects and submitted 
a letter from the letter discusses the purpose of the judging committee and the duties of the Petitioner 
without establishing that he actually served on the committee. 
3 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in 
his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of project 
review requests relative to others, served in chairmanships of committees for reputable companies, or 
judged highly distinguished projects, the Petitioner has not established that his internal judging 
experience places him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's written work does not automatically place one at the top of the 
field. Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored four papers from 2003 -2004 
published in collections of the The Petitioner, however, has not 
established that this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991). He has not shown that his authorship of four published articles approximately 15 years 
ago is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of his field and is tantamount to 
a career of acclaimed work or that it demonstrates the required sustained national or international 
acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his articles can be an indicator to 
determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have been 
influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Although the Petitioner asserts that "[h]is authored scholarly research 
publications have been widely read [and] cited," he only provides evidence of one article that was 
used as a reference, included in the '1 ___ _ __ "3 While his paper was 
incorporated into project standard, the Petitioner did not establish his authored works have been 
"widely" cited or utilized, and therefore, sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in his field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
Further, the Petitioner did not show that the application of his written work by the field represents 
attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare his authored works to others in his 
field of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner performed in a critical role as director of the development 
department of from 2007 -2009 based on his work for a business center construction project. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his employment in this role is reflective of, or has 
3 The Petitioner also indicates that his "Ph.D. thesis, thesis abstract, and the work completed during research phase can be 
found on all the major scientific portals of Russia and Belarus." Although he lists seven websites, he did not submit 
evidence of his work posted on the websites, nor did he demonstrate that they are considered "major scientific portals." In 
addition, the posting of his thesis and related work on websites, in and of itself, does not establish evidence of the 
recognition of his work in the field. 
4 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
resulted in, widespread acclaim from his field or that he is considered to be at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has held 
any other leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations, 
nor does it show that his role for approximately 10 years ago is representative of sustained 
national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act; H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As it relates to awards, the Petitioner claims eligibility based on receipt of a 2007 
However, the record reflects that the "Present Certificate is given to : 
of project In order to 
fulfill the awards criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 4 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive a , rather, garnered the award. The description of 
this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of the 
awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 5 Moreover, the 
Petitioner indicates that in 2000 he received "1st place at the in the field of 
'Industrial and civil construction. "'6 The record contains a diploma from the 
for the competition of students." The Petitioner has not 
established that awards won in competitions that were limited by his student status indicate that he "is 
one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). In addition, even considering his awards in excess of 10 years ago, the Petitioner did not 
show that they are indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
With respect to the Petitioner's memberships, he claims eligibility based on memberships with the 
of the of the Russian Federation and the 
Regarding the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
head of finance for . who asserted that the Petitioner was a member of from 2013 -
2015 and "confirm[ed] that required outstanding achievements of their members as judged by 
nationally recognized experts in the field of Engineering." However, did not explain 
his affiliation with or how he is aware of the Petitioner's membership , nor did he reference or 
provide any source information to support his claims regarding the membership requirements of 
In addition, the record contains a letter from representative of who stated 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
5/d. 
6 The Petitioner also claims that in 2006 to have "won the absolute first place by the results of a two-day competition at 
the corporate event m where over 30 top industry executives took part in and earned a prestigious 
title of an MVP (Most Valuable Person)." However, the Petitioner neither references any documentation, nor does the 
record contain such evidence, to support his assertions. Regardless, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the "MVP" 
award is nationally or international ly recognized for excellence in the field. 
5 
.
Matter ofV-B-A-
that the Petitioner "is an expert in the section of the Scientific and Expert Council" and "[t]he 
nomination of a candidate for the membership in the scientific and expert council must contain 
information regarding his work and scientific activities with a mandatory indication of specialization, 
qualification, scientific achievements and titles, and work experience." The Petitioner, however, did 
not establish that those requirements reflect outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts, nor does it represent an individual who is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(2). As the Petitioner has not shown that he is a 
member of associations that limit membership to individuals with renowned endeavors, his 
membership evidence does not contribute to a finding that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner claimed that "[t]he major professional publication of the 
largest company of the Russian Federation, published an article 
about [him] and his master classes." The Petitioner submitted a letter from 
department of record keeping for who stated that in 2013 the Bulletin of the Joint Scientific 
Council of Russian Railways "published an article about [the Petitioner] in the section of the main 
collection of innovative articles regarding the methodology developed by the author." However, the 
Petitioner did not provide the referenced article to support the statements in the letter, nor did he show 
that the Bulletin of the Joint Scientific Council of Russian Railways is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. Regardless, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a single article 
published over five years ago is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, 
the evidence does not support the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of 
extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In regards to the Petitioner's contributions, he submitted recommendation letters that base their 
opinions on the Petitioner's "affidavit" and other documentation supplied to them by the Petitioner 
rather than their own professional knowledge of his work in the field. For example, 
stated that he has "reviewed [the Petitioner's] affidavit ... am providing this affidavit based 
on his affidavit." Likewise, referenced "[a]ccording to [the Petitioner's] affidavit" 
several times. Similarly, indicated that he "review[ed] documentation pertaining to [the 
Petitioner's] background in detail." In general, the letters summarize the Petitioner's professional 
accomplishments, work history, and other claims discussed above. The letters, however, do not 
explain how the Petitioner's achievements have been considered by the field to be of major 
significance. Moreover, they do not contain detailed information showing the unusual influence or 
high impact his contributions have had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 Here, the letters do not provide sufficient information 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. At 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F .3d at 1036, aff' din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters the repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual 's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contribut ions of major significance in the field). 
Matter ofV-B-A-
and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the 
Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-B-A-, ID# 2648584 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF C-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a performing artist and actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as 
required, he did not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits further documentation and a brief, arguing that he meets an 
additional criterion and has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of C-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who has mainly performed in Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United 
States. As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the following three criteria: published material under 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and artistic display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a judge at an independent film 
festival and has performed in theaters and at festivals. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and artistic display criteria. However, for the reasons discussed 
later in this decision, we do not concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
the published material criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Beneficiary satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter of C-B-
A Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on being a cast member in a production that won an 
and a Specifically, he submitted documentation reflecting 
that the theatrical production, received an for " 
l" and a for " . " In addition, he 
references a 2003 non-precedent decision and argues that "team" awards satisfy this criterion. 
However, the referenced 2003 decision was not published as a precedent and therefore do not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing 
law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguished based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show that the specific facts and circumstances of those cases are strikingly similar 
to those of the present case. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive an or rather, the production 
garnered the awards. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus 
should be on "the alien's" receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt 
of the awards or prizes. 2 Moreover, the Petitioner did not show how the awards for" 
" and " __________ '' are in his field of endeavor, performing and acting. 
In addition, the evidence offered by the Petitioner regarding both the and the 
reflect that they also bestow specific, individual awards. For instance, 
they grant awards to best actors and actresses in supporting and leading roles in multiple categories. 
Most relevant here, the Petitioner did not receive an or for 
his cast or acting role in We note that while some award categories are for the production, 
individuals are also specifically credited. For example, the 2011 named the winner of 
"Best Costume Design" to designed by Here, 
and received the award because both were named recipients as opposed to the Petitioner 
who was not recognized or mentioned in the " _________ " or " 
" categories. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https:/ /www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/Po licy Manual. html. 
2 Id. 
3 
Matter of C-B-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, we disagree. Specifically, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, which include the title, date, and author. 3 The record reflects that 
he submitted two articles about him published in Gazzetta d'Alba; however, neither article contains 
the required author of the material. In fact, in his appeal brief, he indicates the authors as "N/A" (not 
applicable). 
Nevertheless, the Petitioner offered screenshots from Similar Web regarding rankings and "traffic 
overview" for gazzettadalba.it. For example, Similar Web reflects that the website has a global ranking 
of 448,451, a country ranking of 12,992, and total visits of "155.04K." However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that the articles were posted on gazzettadalba.it. Further, although he provides 
evidence relating to general Internet traffic estimators and methodology, the Petitioner did not show 
the significance of gazzettadalba.it's rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such information 
reflects status as a major medium. 4 As it relates to Gazzetta d'Alba, the Petitioner provided 
screenshots from Wikipedia, which claimed that Gazzetta d'Alba is a local, weekly publication with a 
circulation of 15,500. We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia 
that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia 
(April 9, 2019), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 
F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that such circulation figures 
represent major medium status consistent with this regulatory criterion. 5 
Moreover, the Petitioner submitted an article about him published in fl Corriere. However, the 
Petitioner did not include the required date and author of the material. In addition, the Petitioner did 
not present documentary evidence establishing that fl Corriere is a professional or major trade 
publication. Similarly, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from ilprofumodelladolcevita.com 
reflecting an interview of him without offering evidence demonstrating that the website is a major 
medium. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted articles posted on the following websites: varsity.co.uk, 
edinburghguide.com, and festmag.co.uk. However, while the articles briefly mention the Petitioner 
one time as an actor or performer, they are not about him but reviews for shows and plays. Articles 
that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at * 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding 
a show are not about the actor). 6 Moreover, for the reasons discussed above, although the Petitioner 
3 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
5 Id. 
6 See also users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing that the published material should be about 
4 
Matter of C-B-
presented screenshots from Similar Web relating to Internet rankings and traffic, he did not explain 
the significance of such statistics and how they reflect the websites' status as major media. 
Finally, the record contains a screenshot from Bouquet TV posted on You Tube along with a letter from 
the television station indicating an episode "featuring [the Petitioner], has been programmed and 
broadcast[ ed] in our circuit," and Bouquet TV encompasses multiple television channels, including 
Italia 2. The Petitioner, however, did not provide a transcript of the episode reflecting published 
material about him. Further, although he submitted a screenshot from Wikipedia regarding a brief 
background for Italia 2, the Petitioner did not establish that the episode aired on Italia 2, nor did he 
show that Wikipedia demonstrates that Italia 2, as well as Bouquet TV, are major media. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that his evidence fulfills the eligibility requirements, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
B. 0-1 N onimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USC IS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USC IS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
5 
Matter of C-B-
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofC-B-, ID# 2755335 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF J-M-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a Muay Thai and mixed martial arts (MMA) coach and trainer, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability in the athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets six of the ten regulatory criteria, and has established 
his eligibility for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204. 5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
According to a March 2018 statement, the Petitioner intends to enter the United States to work "as 
Class Instructor (Muay Thai) and Personal Instructor/Coach for the ... [for] 
all skill levels from entry-level to expert." The president of the academy, . indicates that 
the organization is a Muay Thai, Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu, and Submission Grappling academy in 
The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He, therefore, must submit evidence 
satisfying at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v) to meet 
the initial evidence requirements. Upon a review of the documents, we conclude that he has not 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he satisfies at least three of the following six 
criteria he claims to meet. 1 
1 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative , and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, 
AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://wvvw.uscis.gov/ laws/policy -memoranda. 
2 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion because he is the two-time United States Champion. 
He submits certificates indicating that he was the 2005 ' 
and the 2003 
' The record includes 
documents about noting that it is "the oldest and largest organization of its kind, with over 107 
countries in its membership," and that it provides fighters "the best opportunities to compete and to 
move up through the ranks of other top-level competitors." The documents further state that 
offers "an opportunity for fighters to develop from novice class amateur fighters to open class 
amateurs, and then onto the professional level, through safe and competitive events." According to a 
document entitled I the events that the Petitioner 
won in 2003 and 2005 are only open to amateur fighters, who have not "signed a professional (boxing, 
kickboxing, MMA) contract or fought for any monetary compensation," or held "ranking in any 
professional list (i.e. 
etc.)." 
The record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner's wins in the two amateur events 
constitute his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the 
field. Specifically, the record lacks sufficient evidence confirming that his accomplishments are 
recognized outside of on a national or international level. For example, he has not shown that 
his wins attracted the level of media attention that might indicate the awards' national or international 
recognition. Moreover, he has not submitted information about the individuals who participated in 
the amateur events that he was in, including their caliber and skill level, which might reveal the 
prestige and recognition of the competitions in the sport. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, 6 (providing that for this criterion we should consider "[t]he number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors" and that "an award limited to 
competitors from a single institution ... may have little national or international significance"). Based 
on these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that his accomplishments in the 2003 and 2005 
amateur events are recognized nationally or internationally, or that he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he satisfies this criterion because he was part of the 
national team in 2003 and 2005. He submits certificates showing that he was "an official member of 
the 2005 and "an official member of the 2003 
According to an online printout entitled 
" "[i ]n 2001, set up the first 
and that "[f]inalists from the event comprised the first US Team" that competed in the 
An online printout entitled states that the organization 
has "representatives in more than 90 countries and regularly holds competitions , culminating once a 
3 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
year in the which involves all the amateur material arts disciplines and 
styles under one set competition format." 
The record shows that the Petitioner became the national team member based on 
his 2003 and 2005 compet1t10n successes. He, however, has not shown that his wins at these 
events qualify as "outstanding achievements," as referenced in the criterion. As discussed, the 
competitions are open only to amateur fighters. As such, the top individuals in the sport, who are 
professional athletes, may not complete in them. In addition, the Petitioner has not submitted 
information, such as the number of participants in his events or the caliber of these participants, which 
might reveal whether winning these contests qualify as "outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, the record demonstrates that there are multiple Muay Thai and MMA federations. As such, 
the record does not confirm that being on the national team is similar to being on the national 
team of a sport that has one national governing body, which generally means that only the top 
competitors in the country make the team. Furthermore, the record lacks sufficient evidence 
confirming that the individuals who judged the Petitioner's events are recognized national or 
international experts. As such, he has not shown that his membership on the national team 
constitutes evidence of his membership in organizations that require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion. The record includes an Internet Movie Database 
(IMDb) printout, indicating that he appeared as the character in the 2017 
documentary film This document does not satisfy the criterion because it does not 
include information about the author. In addition, other than listing his character in the film, the 
printout does not provide any additional information about him or his work as an athlete or coach. 
Other published materials, such as a 2013 Fighters Only article, while listing him as a coach for a 
particular fighter or establishment, similarly do not include information about him or his work. The 
Petitioner, therefore, has not established that these brief references satisfy the criterion. 
According to a printout from buildseries.com, in 2017, the program Build interviewed the 
Petitioner and others about The Petitioner has not offered a transcript of the interview 
or documentation to show that Build constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media. As such, the record is insufficient to confirm that the interview was about him as relating 
to his work as a coach or athlete published in a qualifying publication or media. 
The record contains other documents , including those showing that the Petitioner served as a 
consultant for an Adidas advertisement campaign entitled · 2 he was 
2 The Petitioner offers an October 2017 letter from the producer of the Adidas commercial · to 
4 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
acknowledged in the books and both written by 
he was one of the guest co-hosts on the podcast 
with and ; and he was the trainer for , a professional 
MMA fighter, who fought in an event that NBC Sports broadcast. While this evidence might show 
that the Petitioner has been gainfully employed and active in the sport, it does not demonstrate that the 
published materials are "about [him] ... relating to [his] work in the field for which classification is 
sought." The Petitioner has not shown that these published materials discuss his biography, his athletic 
accomplishments, or his work as a coach and trainer. Based on these reasons, he has not demonstrated 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner indicates that he meets this criterion. The record supports his position. According to a 
June 2018 letter from the president of , the Petitioner "has represented 
[the] organization as a Judge and Referee of [its] most prestigious championship events." 
explains that the Petitioner was a judge at the 2016 , and 
"judged more than six world title fights." During this event, the Petitioner "assigned points to the 
individual fighters for given actions such as kicks ... based on the impact of the strike on the 
opponent," and "determine[d] the winners of the world titles." The evidence, including 
letter, sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner alleges that he meets this criterion because he has developed unique training techniques 
that improve performance. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he 
made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original training methods have been 
widely accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the 
field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9. 
The record includes a number ofletters from individuals who have worked with the Petitioner , praising 
his training methods. For example, states in a February 2018 letter that the Petitioner "has 
developed specific, innovative, and highly-effective and individualized Muay Thai and MMA 
programs" that "focus on a wide range ofMMA, Muay Thai, and kickboxing techniques ." He claims 
that the Petitioner "played a critical role in [his] success, including [his] victory over 
in 2017. ___ a MMA and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu fighter whom the Petitioner had trained, provides 
verify his involvement with the project. The letter, however, contains two different fonts: one font is used to describe his 
achievements and qualifications, while the other is used for the letter's introductory and closing paragraphs. This calls 
into question the authenticity of the letter and whether it represents the author's independent opinion. 
5 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
in an October 2017 letter that "the pioneering, cutting-edge trammg plans [that the Petitioner] 
developed are the best ... Muay Thai plans and programs" and they "led to [his] winning a prestigious 
championship." states in a June 2018 letter that the Petitioner "is widely known for his 
original, innovative 'periodization' training methods" that "teaches the fighter[s] to manage their 
aerobic energy such that they use their peak energy at the most crucial moments in a tournament." 
While the evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the Petitioner's training methods are innovative and 
unique, it does not confirm that they qualify as contributions of major significance in the field. 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9. claims in his June 
2018 letter that his academy as well as other training facilities have used the Petitioner's unique 
periodization plans. . the owner and head coach of __ similarly states 
in his June 2018 letter that he has "use[ d] and incorporate[ d the Petitioner's] original technique in [his] 
own coaching and training," which led to his fighter ----~ · .. win[ning] the world 
championship gold medal in 2016." 
These documents illustrate that the Petitioner's methods have been adopted by some coaches and 
trainers, but do not confirm that they have been accepted and implemented by a large number of 
coaches or that they have otherwise influenced training methods in the field in a significant way. For 
example, the record lacks major publication reporting on the Petitioner's methods or noting that they 
have been widely adopted in the sport. This criterion requires documentation of contributions of major 
significance in the field as a whole. Evidence of impact on a limited number of individuals are 
therefore insufficient to satisfy the criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a 
finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact 
in the field as a whole); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding "letters from physics professors attesting 
to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient to meet this criterion). 
Similarly, although ===== provides in his June 2018 letter that the Petitioner has developed 
"a unique to measure a student's progress, and that it "has been adopted 
by many leading instructors in the sport across the U.S.," the evidence does not substantiate his 
statements. Specifically, the record lacks documentation confirming that the Petitioner's grading 
system is unique, such that he is the first or one of the first person to have used it, or that others in the 
field has widely adopted this grading system. 
The documents in the record, including reference letters and evidence we have not specifically 
discussed, do not confirm that the Petitioner's training methods or grading system have significantly 
impacted or influenced, or otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the field. 
Letters that offer general praises of the Petitioner and that repeat the regulatory language, but do not 
sufficiently explain how his contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, 9 (noting 
"[l]etters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion"). Based on 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
.
Matter of J-M-C-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion because he works for 
According to a February 2018 letter from the Petitioner "serves in the critical and 
leading positions of Class Instructor (Muay Thai) and Personal Instructor/Coach for the 
_," providing "group and private classes in all skill levels" and "periodic workshops and 
seminars," as well as serving "as a representative ... to promote the Academy." The letter further 
notes that the Petitioner, "serving as both Lead Instructor and Co-Instructor," "plays an absolutely 
critical role in ensuring [the establishment's] continued success and reputation as a leading academy 
for professional fighters and celebrities." The evidence sufficiently shows that the Petitioner performs 
in a leading or critical role for 
The record, however, is insufficient to demonstrate that is an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The 
evidence indicates that the academy serves as a training facility for celebrities and professional MMA 
fighters, including and A 2017 GQ Style article, which features "some of 
the best sweatshirts of the season, worn by the normal guys and badass fighters who train [ at 
indicates that the academy "has become an unlikely training spot for 
photographers, models, musicians, Vogue employees," and that its owner, "is a 
famous Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu practitioner and instructor who comes from a long line of similarly well­
known martial artists." In an email setting up GQ Style's visit to the academy, the publication's 
photographer noted that the article is "a small fashion story." An online printout from bjjheroes.com 
provides that the academy is "a gym that rapidly became a reference in America and the world for 
high quality Jiu Jitsu." 
While the evidence shows that is a successful business that serves both 
professional and recreational athletes, including some who are in the entertainment business, it is 
insufficient to demonstrate that the academy has a distinguished reputation. For example, the record 
does not establish that the establishment has received media coverage at a level that shows its 
eminence, distinction, or excellence, which might confirm its distinguished reputation. See USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 10-11 (providing Webster's online dictionary's 
definition of "distinguished"). Although the Petitioner has offered documentation relating to 
athletic accomplishments, this evidence is insufficient to confirm that his academy has 
a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also claims that he has played a leading or critical role for While 
the evidence shows that he has competed in events, trained fighters who participated in 
competitions , and served as a referee and judge at matches, it does not confirm 
that he holds any leadership position within the organization , or is responsible for duties that make 
him a leader of Moreover , the record does not confirm that he has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome or standing of the entity. While most individuals 
involved with an organization can have some impact on the entity, to establish a critical role, a 
petitioner must document that his or her work is crucial to the success of the entity. The Petitioner has 
Matter of J-M-C-
not made such a showing here. Based on these reasons, he has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his athletic and coaching accomplishments 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of J-M-C-, ID# 26083 53 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF O-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 9, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a documentary filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U. S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria, she did 
not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting deficiencies in the 
Director's decision and contending that she has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the 
very top of her field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter o/0-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met four of the 
initial evidentiary criteria: nationally or internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and display of her work at artistic exhibitions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also meets the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(3 )(i ). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
2 
.
Matter o/0-K-
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner presented documentation showing that she won a 
in the "Student Media" category for her production 
(2014). The record contains information from website 
explaining that Awards are presented in "three distinct annual cycles": "Professional 
Media," "Independent & Emerging Media," and "Student & Youth Media." On appeal, the Petitioner 
presents an article, entitled that lists 
the eligibility criteria for the 2017 "Student Media" category: "Lead filmmaker(s) must be enrolled 
in an undergraduate or graduate program at the time of the film's completion. Lead filmmaker(s) must 
be at least 18 years of age. No commercial distribution at the time of entry. Film must be created 
while attending program between January 2016 -June 2017." This information and evidence is 
insufficient to show that the Petitioner's in "Student Media" filmmaking 
rises to the level of a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in her field. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted evidence indicating that she received a 
award for at the (2015). The 
record includes an announcement for edition of this festival from FilmFreeway.com, a list of 
entries for the festival at www.cultura.trentino.it, and a 2008 article at www.fides.org 
announcing the festival, but they do not mention the Petitioner's ____ award 
or demonstrate its level of recognition in the field of documentary filmmaking. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted a letter from curator of the 
in New York, stating that the Petitioner "possesses impressive 
achievements, including film recognitions such as the 
Likewise, the record includes a letter from the Petitioner's teacher 
at the asserting that the Petitioner's 
"was a significant accomplishment that our industry highly respects" and that her 
involves "immense competition every year" and "demonstrates a phenomenal eye for artistry 
and an unwavering vision for a masterly finished piece." While and 
mention that the Petitioner received these awards, they do not offer further details regarding her 
specific awards or their level of recognition in the field. Accordingly, their statements and the 
information from the above websites are not sufficient to show that the Petitioner's aforementioned 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
The record shows that the Petitioner was a "Bronze Winner" in the "Documentary Feature" category 
at the 2014 ___________ A description of this film festival from 
the website states: 
There's a total of 41 categories (15 primary and 26 creative) and 7 award levels. Best 
Of Show Winner: Will receive and Official Trophy and a guaranteed spot in our 
screening schedule. Diamond Winning Films and Videos: Will receive 
award certificates and will be guaranteed a spot in our screening schedule. 
All other Winners (Diamond creative categories and all Platinum, Gold, Silver, Bronze 
and Honorable Mentions): Will receive digital award certificates and laurels, will be 
3 
.
Matter o/0-K-
listed on their respective winners page. All independent, underground, big and low 
budget projects of all genres and topics are accepted. 
While the is a competition that screens independent films from multiple nations, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner's Bronze award constitutes a 
"nationally or internationally recognized" prize or award for excellence in the field. The issue here is 
not the national or international scope of the Petitioner's competitions, but rather whether her specific 
awards are "nationally or internationally recognized" prizes or awards for excellence in the 
documentary filmmaking field. 
The Petitioner asserts that she directed and produced "one episode" of a film about 
Paralympic athletes from six countries. 1 At the received 
awards for "Best Paralympic Film" and "Best Soundmixing." The record includes information from 
this festival listing and as award recipients, but not the 
Petitioner. Regardless, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the aforementioned awards are 
nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field of documentary filmmaking. 
The record contains a certificate stating that the Petitioner's film 
"Honorable Mention" at the 2013 received an 
and information about 
that film festival from its organizers. While contends that earning an "Honorable mention 
at this world renowned festival ... is truly a milestone in any filmmaker' s career," her statement and 
the information from the organizers is not sufficient show that the Petitioner's honorable 
mention rises to the level of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in 
the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided various newspaper articles mentioning that she was "nominated 
for a 2014 __ 'and a" " While the Petitioner provided 
an event program indicating that she competed in the "Region Three Semifinals" of the 
2014), the record does not include evidence from the 
reflecting her receipt of a _ nomination. 2 
Regardless, the Petitioner's evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that her participation in the 
"Region Three Semifinals" of the __ is a nationally or 
internationally recognize prize or award for excellence in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
1 The Petitioner states that she filmed scenes in Texas that focused on 
The record indicates that this film was "directed by 
½ [m~ , an Americm sledge hockey player. 
, [md] md "produced 
2 Thirty-nine students from 23 U.S. colleges md universities as well as 10 students from foreign universities were selected 
as "finalists" in the competition, but the 
Petitioner was not listed among those finalists. See "20 I 4 
https://vvww . ___ -awardsr-finalists-announced (visited on March 29, 2019, md 
incorporated into the record). 
4 
.
Matter o/0-K-
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated her eligibility under this criterion. For 
the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence showing that she meets the requirements of this criterion. Accordingly, the Director's 
determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner presented a copy of a page appearing in the New York Times ( 2015) with 
the heading which included several pieces of writing, including one 
entitled ,."3 Below the 
heading, however, a disclaimer states: "This special advertising feature is 
sponsored and produced by and did not involve the reporting or editing 
staff of The New York Times." The Petitioner has not demonstrated that "published material" as 
referenced in the regulation includes this type of promotional material that has not gone through the 
traditional editing and reporting process of the publication. 4 Accordingly, we do not find that this paid 
advertising feature in the New York Times constitutes published material about the Petitioner in major 
media. 
The record includes a 2014 article in NY Blueprint entitled 
' and an 2015 article in Voice of America entitled 
but they are not about the Petitioner. While these articles 
mention the Petitioner and her film, they are about a selection of films at the aforementioned festivals 
and not the Petitioner. This regulatory criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles 
that are not about her do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
00820 at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the 
actor). Similarly, the articles the Petitioner presented from Hipster Jew 2013) and 
Filmkommentaren.dk 2014) are about her film ___________ and not the 
Petitioner. 
The Petitioner submitted a screenshot for "audTV's interview with [the Petitioner] at the 2016 
at reflecting "49 views." The record, 
however, does not include a transcript of this interview or identify the required author of the material. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered a 2014 interview of the Petitioner from IndieWire.com 
entitled [the Petitioner] -
She also provided a 2014 article about her at www. .net5 entitled 
3 At the conclusion of this article, it states: "Read the full story at rbth.com. " The record, however, does not include a 
copy of the "full" article from rbth.com. Nor has the Petitioner shown that the Similar Web rankings and "traffic overview" 
she provided for 
rbth.com establish that website is a form of major media. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po licymanual/HTML/Po licyManua l.html (providing that marketing materials created for the 
purpose of selling a petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are not generally considered to be published 
material about the petitioner). 
5 This website is run by organizers of an annual documentary film festival in 
5 
.
Matter o/0-K-
The record includes additional articles about the Petitioner 
from Aif.ru 
,Mk.ru 
Saint Petersburg ( , City Guide of 
and Futures Centre ( 
As evidence regarding the publications in which the above material appeared, the Petitioner offered 
screenshots from Similar Web regarding rankings and "traffic overview" for each of the 
aforementioned websites. For example, Similar Web reflects that Indie Wire. com has a global rank of 
6,730, a country rank of 2,781, and a category rank of 72. In addition, Mk.ru has a global rank of 
1,123, a country rank of 69, and a category ranking of 37. The Petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate the significance of these Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as major trade publications or other major media. 
Finally, the record does not show that any of the remaining articles submitted for this criterion were 
about the Petitioner and in major media. Based on the foregoing, she has not demonstrated that she 
meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner meets this criterion. For example, the 
Petitioner provided evidence indicating that she was a member of the judging panel for the 
(2017) hosted by the Russian program at 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner submitted documentation reflecting that her films were screened at 
, and the 
in New York. As such, the record supports the Director's determination that she fulfills this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on her role for her 
video production company that specializes "in documentary films, videos for non-profit organizations 
and commercials. " As founder and sole filmmaker for ___ we find that the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading and critical role for her company. 
The record includes a letter from 
at and a script writer for 
stating: and an adjunct professor 
.
Matter o/0-K-
I have been professionally involved with [the Petitioner] through for a 
number of years now, writing grants and scripts for 
and These three films in particular are indicative of [the 
Petitioner's] extraordinary ability as a filmmaker, and within the independent film 
industry, have substantially elevated the name and standing of 
While the record shows that the Petitioner has performed in a leading and critical role for 
the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that her company has a distinguished reputation in 
filmmaking, video production, or commercial advertising. For example, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the submitted published material relating to or its films sets her company apart from 
others in the industry or otherwise reflects its distinguished reputation. Similarly, the record does not 
demonstrate that the stature of the Petitioner's awards, nominations, and film festival screenings are 
such that her company has garnered a distinguished reputation as a result. 6 With regard to the 
Petitioner's awards, they have already been discussed under the regulatory criterion at 8 C .F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). Further, while the film received various student 
awards and other honors, and was included in the "Online Film Database" of the 
and the DVD collection of the this evidence 
is not sufficient to establish that the film company 
reputation. 7 is an organization with a distinguished 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that she has performed in a leading or critical role as a film editor 
for a film and media production company. As it relates to a leading role, the 
evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, 
can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 9 
The record includes a letter from , director and producer at 
stating that she "hired [the Petitioner] to work as an editor on a documentary film for a gala held by 
the and that this film, entitled "was the most 
popular the had ever created, resulting in a wonderful emotional response from the audience." 
In addition, indicates that she "brought [the Petitioner] onto further projects," including 
as editor of the documentary short film which she asserts "was one of only 57 films selected 
out of 4,400 entries for a World Premiere at the " However, the Petitioner did 
not show how her role as an editor for the aforementioned films reflects her leading or critical role for 
the overall production company. For instance, letter did not contain detailed and 
probative information that specificall y addressed how the Petitioner's editorial role was leading or 
critical for the organization. 10 Moreover, did not explain how the Petitioner's role was 
6 See users Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition of 
"distinguished " as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
7 For instance, the DVD collection of the identifies the "School of Visual Arts" rather 
than 
8 See users Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 Id. 
io Id. 
.
Matter o/0-K-
leading compared to the other crew on the film such as its director and producers, nor did her 
statements indicate that the Petitioner's film editing was of significant importance for 
success or standing in the industry so as to demonstrate a critical role. Furthermore, 
while the record includes information about from its website and evidence 
that was screened at the this documentation is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that _______ has achieved a distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains that she has performed in leading or critical roles as director and 
producer of and 
The Petitioner, however, has not identified how her work on these films constitutes leading or critical 
roles for "organizations or establishments," pursuant to the language of the criterion, nor has she 
demonstrated the distinguished reputation of any such entities. 11 For the above reasons, the Petitioner 
has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
B. 0-1 N onimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USC IS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification , intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her filmmaking projects are indicative of the 
11 With respect to the production company 
reputation of this organization. as discussed above, the record does not establish the distinguished 
Matter o/0-K-
required sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofO-K-, ID# 2647573 (AAO Apr. 9, 2019) 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25951460 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a makeup artist styled as a "micropigmentation specialist ," seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner either received a major, internationally recognized prize or award, or 
satisfied at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner then submitted an 
appeal; however, we summarily dismissed the appeal because it was not supported by a statement that 
specifically identifies an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being 
appealed. The matter is now before us on combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We do not consider new facts or evidence in a motion 
to reconsider . 
Specifically, our review of this motion to reopen is limited to the issue of whether a new fact, supported 
by documentary evidence, establishes that we erred by summarily dismissing the appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). In tum, our review of this motion to reconsider is limited to the issue of whether we 
incorrectly applied a law or policy based on the record of proceedings at the time we summarily 
dismissed the appeal of the Form I-140. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits an undated, two-page brief that indicates it is "in support of [the 
Petitioner's] Appeal to the Administrative Appeals Office." However, the brief references our 
summary dismissal decision dated September 29, 2022, which the Petitioner acknowledges 
"specifically states that the appeal was being dismissed because Petition [sic] did not submit a brief 
specifying the reasons the Service made an incorrect decision on Form I-140." Therefore, the brief 
appears to be in support of the Petitioner's combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, not 
in support of her appeal. The motion brief summarizes the preponderance of evidence standard and 
states, in relevant part, the following: 
In this case, petitioner has presented sufficient evidence, when reviewed in its entirety, 
to establish by the preponderance of the evidence, that petitioner meets at least three 
out often criterions set forth by regulations. We are not submitting a brief to refute the 
law since the only concern we present is the fact that the Service did not review our 
record in its entirety and we kindly request the AAO to review the evidence to remand 
the case to the Service for approval [sic]. 
The Petitioner does not state new facts on motion to reopen that may establish that, contrary to our 
summary dismissal, the Petitioner supported the appeal with a statement that specifically identified an 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. Therefore, the 
submission does not satisfy the requirements of a motion to reopen. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). In 
tum, the Petitioner does not identify a law or policy we may have incorrectly applied in our summary 
dismissal. Therefore, the submission does not satisfy the requirements of a motion to reconsider. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
In summation, the Petitioner has not submitted a new fact, supported by documentary evidence, 
sufficient to establish that we erred in concluding that the appeal was not supported by a statement 
that specifically identified an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2); 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). In addition, the Petitioner has not established that our 
previous decision to summarily dismiss the appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy and that it was incorrect based on the evidence then before us. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3); 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). The appeal remains dismissed and the petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24443183 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim or that she has risen to the 
very top of her field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an internationally competitive swimmer who intends to continue this activity in the 
United States. In the present case, the Director decided that the Petitioner had submitted sufficient 
documentation to meet the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), membership in associations 
which require outstanding achievements of their members, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published 
material about the Petitioner in professional or other major media. 1 Since the Petitioner met three of 
the ten initial criteria, the Director made a final merits determination and found that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim or that she is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of swimming. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision applied incorrect standards and did not 
analyze all of the evidence provided. The sole issue on appeal is therefore whether the overall record 
shows that the Petitioner has sustained a national or international level of acclaim, that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and that she is 
among the small percentage at the very top of her field of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); see also Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d at 1119-1120. Upon review, we 
find that the Petitioner has not established her eligibility. 
The Petitioner states that the Director applied overly strict standards to her petition. The Director's 
decision included a list of twelve swimmers who appeared in their internet search results for "ranking 
best women's swimmers in the world" and found that because the Beneficiary did not appear in this 
list, she was not one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of her field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner correctly notes on appeal that this analysis overlooks the fact that swimming is divided 
into different events by stroke and distance and a swimmer may be at the top of their field by being 
one of the best at their event. See, e.g., Muni v. INS, 891 F.Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995) (finding that a 
hockey defenseman should be compared to other defenseman rather than to all professional hockey 
players). However, this oversight does not affect the ultimate outcome of the appeal, as the Petitioner 
has not established that she has reached the very top of her field within her swimming disciplines. 
1 The Director also found that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)(viii), performing in a lead 
or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
2 
The Petitioner specializes in the 50-meter backstroke, 100-meter backstroke, and 100-meter freestyle 
events. According to the website of World Aquatics, 2 the governing body of international competitive 
swimming, the Petitioner's personal best times in the 50-meter backstroke and 100-meter backstroke 
events event occurred in 2015.3 In that year, 151 other swimmers had faster finishes in the 50-meter 
backstroke and 120 other swimmers had faster finishes in the 100-meter backstroke, sometimes on 
more than one occasion. 4 Similarly, at least 200 other swimmers had faster finishes than the Petitioner 
in the 100-meter freestyle in 2020, the year she had her personal best time in that discipline. 5 This 
does not establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the top of her field in any of the 
swimming events in which she specializes. 
The Petitioner also cites Muni for the proposition that an athlete need only be "very good" in their 
field in order to establish eligibility. First, it is noted that we are not bound to follow the published 
decision of a United States district court, even in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of 
K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715, 718-720 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying such a decision will be given 
due consideration when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as 
a matter of law. Id. Furthermore, even taking this case into consideration, the self-petitioner in Muni 
provided evidence that he was considered one of the best defensemen in the National Hockey League 
and was a highly impactful player on championship teams. Muni v. INS, 891 F.Supp. at 444-445. As 
noted above, the Petitioner in this case has not similarly established that she is considered one of the 
small percentage at the top of her field. 
The Petitioner's brief also contends that the Director did not adequately weigh, among other factors, 
her record in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I competition, her "top 
awards at ... distinguished competitions beyond her country's borders," and her "medals at 
competitions sanctioned by the United States governing body for the sport," stating that these are 
evidence of her national and international acclaim. First, NCAA Division I competition is restricted 
to students at specific United States colleges and universities, which does not indicate that success in 
such competitions constitutes a form of national or international acclaim in the field of competitive 
swimming. See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual F .2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -
First Step of Reviewing Evidence, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (noting that limitations on 
who may compete may indicate that a prize or award is not nationally or internationally significant). 
Similarly, the record indicates that the sanctioned U.S. competition specified by the Petitioner's brief, 
the Speedo Championships, was a sectional competition for swimmers from Texas and Louisiana, and 
which only allowed a limited number of swimmers from outside that geographic area. This does not 
establish that the Petitioner's success in that competition is a form of national or international acclaim. 
Id. Finally, the fact that the Petitioner has won medals in international competitions outside of 
2 World Aquatics was fonnerly known as Federation Internationale de Natation (FINA). Overview, 
https://www.worldaquatics.com /about. 
3 Results AQUA Official, https://www.worldaquatics.com/athletes.__ ________ 
(referring to the Petitioner's competition results in SO-meter pools) (last visited Apr. 11, 2023). 
4 Rankings, https://www.worldaquatics.com/swimming/rankings (filter by gender and event type; expand advanced filters 
to filter events by year; under "Times Mode", use the "All Times" filter to see the year's top finishes in an event or the 
"Best Times" filter to see a ranking of each individual swimmer's best time in the event that year) (last visited Apr. 11, 
2023). 
5 Id. 
3 
Uzbekistan and the United States does not establish that those medals are a form of international 
acclaim. The evidence provided to establish the prestige of the Bulgarian and Hungarian Open 
Championships consists of country profiles indicating that the competitions' host nations regularly 
send a number of swimmers to the Olympics. This does not establish what level of acclaim these 
competitions grant their medalists in the field of competitive swimming. 
The Petitioner contends that her membership in Uzbekistan's National Swimming Federation and 
National Olympic committee and her level of national success in swimming, including holding several 
national records, establishes her sustained national acclaim in her field. 6 We acknowledge that the 
Petitioner holds many Uzbek national records in swimming, has qualified for the Olympics twice, and 
competed at the London Olympics in 2012. However, the statutory requirement for the extraordinary 
ability classification is not only success, but being one of the small percentage in the top of one's field 
and having one's achievements recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
While the record indicates that the Petitioner has been one of the top female swimmers in Uzbekistan 
for over ten years, it does not contain extensive documentation of a level of recognition signifying that 
she is one of the small percentage at the top of her field. The media coverage of the Petitioner's career 
is largely from campus and local publications and a swimming news website writing about her 
collegiate competition career, and her recommendation letters are largely from her coaches and Uzbek 
sporting officials. Of the Russian and Uzbek news articles submitted, only one 2014 article is about 
the Petitioner, and the rest mention her as one member of various Uzbek sporting teams. This does 
not suffice to show that the Petitioner's achievements have been nationally or internationally 
acclaimed or that they have been recognized in her field through extensive documentation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The totality of the record does not establish that the Petitioner's achievements have translated into a 
sustained level of recognition that constitutes national or international acclaim or demonstrates a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sep. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of her field 
of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The petition will remain 
denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 In this as well as other instances in her briet: the Petitioner emphasizes that she meets several of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and that this should establish her national or international acclaim. However. these criteria 
only describe the initial evidence that must be provided, at a minimum, in order to establish eligibility. The fact that a 
petitioner meets these minimum requirements does not, in and of itself, establish that they are eligible for the extraordinary 
ability immigrant visa. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(2). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24844951 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 11, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business data engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the beneficiary met any of the ten evidentiary criteria required to show eligibility for this 
visa classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a business data engineer who intends to continue working in this field in the United 
States. Because he has not indicated or established that he has won a major, internationally recognized 
award, the Petitioner must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner did not meet any of 
the following criteria: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), Commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner continues to assert that he qualifies under all of these criteria, as well as 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles in the field, which he had also claimed in 
the underlying petition. Upon a review of all the evidence, the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets at least three of the regulatory criteria, for the reasons below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion due to his membership in the following: 
• Amazon Web Services (A WS) Certified Global Community; 
• Association for Computing Machinery (ACM); 
• Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE); and 
• Data Quality and Data Governance Forum on Linkedln. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner's membership in these organizations is based on 
outstanding achievements in his field, as judged by recognized national or international experts in that 
field. The Petitioner submitted a certificate stating that he successfully completed the requirements to 
2 
be an "AWS Certified Solutions Architect -Associate," as well as documentation indicating that this 
certification requires the completion of certain coursework. 1 It is not apparent that being "AWS 
certified" constitutes membership in an association. Instead, a message from an administrator of the 
A WS Certified Global Community website indicates that they don't offer membership documentation 
because "this community is a benefit of being certified." Another screen capture of the A WS 
certification website indicates that the A WS Certified Global Community is a forum for certified 
professionals to communicate with each other. This does not establish that the A WS Certified Global 
Community is an association, or that being A WS certified constitutes membership in an organization. 
Instead, it indicates that A WS certification is a professional credential. Furthermore, the record does 
not indicate that completing the required coursework for A WS certification constitutes an outstanding 
achievement in the field of data engineering or that this is judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field. 
The certificate from ACM stating that the Petitioner has been admitted for "Professional Membership" 
does not state the requirements for that membership, and the membership card for IEEE only states 
that the Petitioner is a "Member" in the "Germany section" without stating membership requirements. 
Finally, it is not apparent that a Linkedin forum such as the Data Quality and Data Governance forum 
constitutes an association, and the record does not include documentation of any membership 
requirements for that forum. Apart from the Petitioner's statements in his cover letters, there is no 
indication that any of these memberships require outstanding achievements in the field. It is the 
Petitioner's burden to submit sufficient relevant, probative, and credible evidence to demonstrate that 
his claims are more likely than not to be true. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-376. The 
Petitioner has not done so here. 
The documentation in the record does not establish that any of the Petitioner's memberships are based 
on outstanding achievements, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the 
Petitioner's field. The Petitioner does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on instances in which he judged the work 
of his colleagues. The Director concluded that this was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner had 
participated in a judge of the work of others. We will withdraw this finding. 
The letter from A-G-, who worked with the Petitioner atl I a Russian grocery and retail chain, 
states that the Petitioner interviewed, selected, and supervised a team of subordinate data engineers 
and was part of a performance review panel in May 2019. The letter states that the panel was part of 
the company's twice-yearly performance review process, and that its purpose was to evaluate the 
workers' KPis, or key performance indicators. This letter provides sufficient information to establish 
1 While the Petitioner's letter in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) states that A WS certification also 
requires "significant experience" in certain professional fields, this is not supp01ied by the documentation provided. 
Furthermore, professional experience in a field is not an outstanding achievement as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in that field, and so does not establish eligibility for this criterion. 
3 
that the Petitioner participated as a judge of the work of others in his field on this occasion. 2 The 
Petitioner meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on his work forl I and forl I a 
division of the rail carrier _ I as well as his publications and a conference speaking 
engagement. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he made original contributions 
to his field and that those contributions have been of major significance to the field. 
At I I the Petitioner co-developed a corporate data warehousing project (DWH) which helped 
the company implement digital analytics and business intelligence in its operations. While the letters 
provided from the Petitioner's coworkers atl I indicate that DWH was helpful to the company, 
they do not show that his contribution was original or had major significance to his field beyond I I See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that contributions 
which were not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer do not meet this criterion). For example, the 
initial letter from the Petitioner's supervisor atl I A-E-, states that the DWH, which was 
developed in 2010, "madel lone of the first data-driven companies in the corporate market." 
However, the petition does not contain documentation to support this assertion or to otherwise 
demonstrate that the DWH was an original and significant contribution to the field of data engineering. 
The Petitioner submits a screen capture of a 2018 article stating that I !developed a logistics 
portal for its suppliers which would increase the efficiency of its supply chain, 3 as well as a Cnews 
article about I I implementation of I I and documentation of a conference talk the 
Petitioner's manager gave about DWH. None of this documentation mentions the Petitioner by name 
or establishes what influence the Petitioner's work had on his field. The fact that some of the results 
of the Petitioner's work were publicized does not indicate that they were of major significance to his 
field beyond! I There is insufficient relevant, probative, and credible evidence in the record to 
establish the originality or impact ofDWH. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-376. 
Similarly, the record does not establish that the the 
Petitioner developed at had an influence on the Petitioner's field. A support letter from a 
coworker states that was used as the basis for various analytics projects at I I 
including the which tracks and analyzes freight car unit 
failures and has been highly successful for the organization. The Petitioner also submits a 2020 article 
from Cnews which discusses howl lwas developed withl from 2017 to 
2019. However, the article does not indicate what impact I I had beyond I I See Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th at 393-394. 
2 The Petitioner also submitted several other documents in support of this criterion, but because the letter from A-G-is 
dispositive of this criterion, we need not analyze them here. See INSv. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and 
agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"). 
3 The screen capture is not a website printout and does not include the article's URL, which makes it difficult to verify and 
diminishes its evidentiary value. 
4 
A second article stating that I I was under consideration for inclusion in the Russian Software 
Registry does not establish the significance of this consideration. One expert quoted in the article 
states that I I customers and partners could theoretically employ its business 
intelligence platform when using its services, and that the organization could use its expertise to enter 
into the domestic business intelligence market. However, another quoted expert states that companies 
in different industries require individualized business intelligence solutions and a specialized platform 
like lwould be of limited use to other organizations. A third expert expresses doubt that I I I would develop business intelligence solutions outside its own enterprises. While this article 
speculates about the potential impact ofl I it does not establish what impact the Petitioner's work 
has actually had on his field. Furthermore, the Petitioner is not mentioned in any of the articles 
provided. This does not suffice to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his work forl I had significant impact on the field of 
data engineering. All of the Petitioner's letters of support are from his coworkers, and while these 
letters are probative, "[i]t is generally expected that one whose accomplishments have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim would have received recognition for his or her 
accomplishments well beyond the circle of his or her personal and professional acquaintances." See 
generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The evidence 
doesn't show that the Petitioner's contributions have been recognized beyond his immediate 
professional circle. While his colleagues recognize the Petitioner as a highly capable worker, this does 
not establish that his work has impacted his field in a major way. Id. at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary 
Ability Petitioners -First Step of Reviewing Evidence (stating that major significance to a field can 
be shown through means such as widespread commentary, impact, or adoption of a petitioner's 
contribution in that field). Finally, the various provided articles about the general importance of data 
analytics to corporations do not mention the Petitioner or his work. The record does not document 
how, specifically, DWH or I I influenced others in the field of data engineering. 
The Petitioner also states he qualifies for this criterion based on articles he posted on the website 
Medium. First, it is noted that the articles were not submitted with the evidence. Instead, the Petitioner 
provided the URL of each article. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof in this proceeding. Matter 
ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. Referencing a website where evidence can be found does not 
meet this burden. While we have the discretion to verify the Petitioner's claims, we are under no 
obligation to obtain supporting evidence on the Petitioner's behalf or on his request. The URLs 
provided to not establish that the Petitioner's articles were original. 
Secondly, the record includes readership statistics indicating that the Petitioner's articles have been 
read between 66 and 526 times each. While the Petitioner states in his RFE response that "more than 
2500 professionals" have read his articles, he arrives at this number by adding up the total number of 
times all of his articles were viewed. Medium indicates that "Views are the number of visitors who 
clicked on a story's page, while Reads tells you how many viewers have read the entire story (an 
estimate)." Publication Stats Medium Help Center, https://help.medium.com/hc/en­
us/articles/215793317-Publication-stats. The number of views of the Petitioner's articles therefore 
does not reflect how many times the articles were read. It is also not apparent that each view came 
from a different individual. The Petitioner does not provide evidence showing that any of these 
readers cited his articles or were otherwise influenced by them, or that these readership figures 
distinguish him from other writers in his field. This does not establish eligibility for this criterion. 
5 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted examples of his postings on professional forums, as 
well as a few instances in which others in his field asked for his advice and assistance. However, the 
evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work in any of these instances was original or had 
an impact beyond the individuals whose questions the Petitioner was answering. Finally, the copy of 
the Petitioner's presentation at the 20221 !conference, his speaking invitation, and the general 
information about that conference do not establish his eligibility. The fact that the Petitioner spoke at 
a conference does not establish that his presentation was original or that it had an impact on his field. 
The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's contributions to his field have been original or 
majorly significant to that field. As such, he does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on articles he published on the website 
Medium and provides the URLs where the articles are located, as well as general information about 
Medium's level of readership. However, since these articles are not included in the record, it is not 
apparent that they are scholarly in nature. A scholarly article should be written for learned persons in 
that field. See generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitioners 
-First Step of Reviewing Evidence ( defining "learned persons" as persons with profound knowledge 
or scholarship in a field). Furthermore, as noted above, the burden of proof in this proceeding is on 
the Petitioner. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-376. The URLs provided do not establish 
the substance or nature of the Petitioner's articles. While the Petitioner provided documentation 
indicating that Medium is a widely-read website, the evidence does not demonstrate that his articles 
were written for learned persons in his field. The record does not indicate that the Petitioner's articles 
are scholarly in nature. 
Additionally, while the Petitioner characterizes Medium as a professional or major trade publication, 
he does not provide sufficient documentation of Medium's subject matter or intended audience to 
support this claim. The fact that Medium is widely-read does not establish that it is a professional or 
trade publication in the Petitioner's field. Id. The Petitioner does not meet the requirements of this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner states that he qualifies for this criterion based on the pay he received in Russia and 
Germany from 2020 to 2021. The Director found that much of the evidence provided in support of 
this criterion did not match the Petitioner's stated occupation or consisted of incomplete website 
printouts that were insufficient to establish eligibility. On appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter with 
explanations of his evidence. Upon review, the Petitioner does not qualify for this criterion. 
In order to evaluate whether a petitioner has received significantly high remuneration for services, we 
compare their pay to that of similar workers in that petitioner's field. See, e.g., Skokos v. DHS, 420 
Fed.Appx. 712, 713-714 (9th Cir. 2011) (stating that a security consultant's salary should be compared 
6 
to that of other security consultants performing similar work). In this instance, much of the Petitioner's 
wage evidence is too general to establish that he has received significantly high remuneration in 
comparison to similar workers. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner earned the following remuneration in 2020 and 2021: 
• 2020 Russian earnings: 2,943,441 rubles; 
• 2021 Russian earnings (January to March): 680,252 rubles; and 
• 2021 German earnings (April to December): 84,286 euros. 
In order to establish that his 2020 and 2021 Russian earnings were significantly high, the Petitioner 
submits pay documentation, a cover letter, and screen captures from various websites. 4 One graph, 
which the Petitioner states is from habr.com, documents the average salaries for all information 
technology (IT) workers in various Russian cities in the second quarter of 2020. This graph indicates 
that the average such salary inl I where the Petitioner worked, averaged 80,000 rubles for the 
second quarter of 2020, or 320,000 rubles a year. However, this appears inclusive of all IT workers, 
not solely business data engineers, and so does not establish his eligibility. Id. 
Another graph the Petitioner states is from the same website indicates that the average 2020 wage for 
backend developers inl I was 110,478 rubles a month, or 1,325,616 rubles a year. It also 
states that the 75th percentile wage for these workers was 150,000 rubles a month, or 1.8 million rubles 
a year, and the 90th percentile wage was 200,000 rubles a month, or 2.4 million rubles a year. This 
document indicates that it is based on only 38 profiles, which limits its value in showing that the 
Petitioner's wages are significantly high in relation to similar workers. Additionally, while we 
acknowledge the Petitioner's statement that "backend developer" is the closest position he could find 
to his own specialty of data engineering, he did not provide information such as this website's 
definition of the duties of a backend developer or a list of relevant occupations that were surveyed. 
This is insufficient to establish that the wages for backend developers, as stated on this website, reflect 
wages of workers who are comparable to the Petitioner. 
A third screen capture, which the Petitioner describes as government statistics provided by Rosstat, 
surveys wages for different types of workers in the region ofl land states that the average 
monthly wage for "high-level qualification specialists" in October 2021 was 45,559 rubles a month, 
or 546,708 rubles a year. Since this wage survey includes workers in various industries unrelated to 
the Petitioner's specialty, it does not establish that the Petitioner receives significantly high 
remuneration compared to others in his field. 
4 As noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not submit website printouts for this evidence. Instead, he submitted various 
cropped screen captures of the websites he was citing, many of which were incorporated into his RFE response letter, and 
separately listed the URLs where he states the information came from. On appeal, the Petitioner states that he submitted 
the evidence in this fashion in order to print fewer pages and simplify his petition and that we should visit the URLs 
provided in order to view the original information. However, we determine eligibility based on the evidence submitted 
with the benefit request, which is contained in the record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(8); 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). It is 
the Petitioner's burden to submit sufficient relevant, probative, and credible documentation to establish eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 375-76. Submitting separate URLs and cropped 
screen captures diminishes the evidentiary value of the Petitioner's documentation here, because it is not apparent from 
the record of proceeding that the information provided comes from the same place as the URLs. 
7 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner's pay evidence for his work in Russia consists of invoices for 
services provided as a contractor. It is therefore not apparent that his remuneration is comparable to 
the information in the websites he provided, which consisted of the wages of salaried workers. The 
totality of the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's pay in Russia qualified as significantly 
high remuneration. 
Regarding his wages in Germany, the Petitioner submits a screen capture of a wage survey of German 
software engineers from the website of Robert Half, and highlights the fact that the average annual 
wage for such workers is 64,250 euros. However, the survey is for the wages of all software engineers, 
rather than data engineering specialists like the Petitioner. Further, the screen capture does not state 
how many wages Robert Half surveyed to make its findings, which limits the data's evidentiary value. 
The Petitioner also submits a table from the website iamexpat.com which states that the average IT 
wage in Germany is 60,563 euros a year. This similarly does not include information about how many 
workers were surveyed and applies to the Petitioner's industry as a whole rather than his position in 
particular, and so does not establish eligibility. 
The screen capture from Stepstone.de consists of a graph stating that the average wage for workers in 
business intelligence, which the Petitioner states is closest to his specialty, is 62,178 euros a year. This 
screen capture contains no information about how many workers were surveyed to arrive at this 
number, the geographical location where these workers were employed, or their specific duties. 
Notably, the graph also includes wages for workers in "databases," "IT architecture," and general "IT 
consulting." It is not apparent from this documentation that the "business intelligence" wage reflects 
that of workers who are comparable to the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner has not established that he commanded a high salary or other significant remuneration 
for his services in relation to others in his field. He does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the 
Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for an additional criterion on appeal, regarding leading 
or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we 
need not address this ground because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we will reserve those issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25 (1976); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 
(BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
8 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted documentation of his successful career 
building data warehousing and business intelligence systems for various organizations, but has not 
demonstrated that these achievements have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes 
sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 11, 2024 In Re: 30627086 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief financial officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate receipt of a one-time achievement or that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded the Petitioner did not establish his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award. In addition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the seven 
claimed categories of evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for six criteria. 
Issues and prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter of O-R-E-, 28 
I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
In addition, the Petitioner submits new evidence and argues new eligibility claims on appeal. Because 
the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence and make 
these claims, we will not consider them for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because 
"the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial"). Thus, we will only address the evidence and claims 
brought before the Director and contested on appeal. For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner 
did not establish he meets at least three categories of evidence. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 1 The 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 2 
On appeal, although he briefly mentions his membership with the Chartered Professional Accountants 
of Ontario (CPAO), the Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision or address his eligibility 
with CPAO. Rather, the Petitioner's brief only makes arguments relating to his membership with 
_________ An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 
at 336 n.5; see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (declining to address a "passing 
reference" to an argument in a brief that did not provide legal support). Therefore, we will only 
respond to the Petitioner's membership with 
In response to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this 
criterion based on his executive membership with and submitted a letter from F-D-, former 
executive vice-president and chief executive officer for who stated: 
As I Idoes not have "by-laws" for requirements for his executive membership as 
CFO as requested by USCIS, the process of appointing him in this prestigious position 
was exactly the same internally as that of naming him the CFO, without the financial 
risk to him and his family. By all board members and constituents, he was always 
referred to as the organization's CFO including bankers, government officials and 
personnel, as he had gained their respect in navigating the difficult financial situation 
the organization had faced. 
International experts including our CEO must approve all executive memberships in 
our organization, including [the Petitioner's] CFO position. To qualify as an executive 
member of our association, the applicant must have outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized national or international experts including the CEO of our 
organization. All CEOs of our association must be international experts. 
Although the letter indicates the absence ofbylaws for executive membership, the letter does notpoint 
to any governing principles, regulations, or other source information to support the claim for 
executive membership requirement. Instead, the letter simply repeats the language of the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) of "outstanding achievements." Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Furthermore, the letter does not further elaborate and 
explain how I I defines "outstanding achievements" or what constitutes "outstanding 
achievements." Without supporting evidence and additional information, the Petitioner's submission 
of a letter repeating regulatory language is insufficient to demonstrate that requires outstanding 
achievements for executive membership. 
3 
Similarly, the letter claims that"[o ]ur board ofdirectors, who approved his appointment and executive 
membership were each international experts in their own field" and then lists a dozen individuals with 
their occupations. However, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence for any of these 
individuals to show their status as recognized national or international experts in their fields or 
disciplines. Again, without corroborating evidence and further information, the Petitioner's 
submission of a letter that lists names and occupations is insufficient to show the national or 
international recognition of the individuals who judge I I executive membership. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 3 USCIS then determines whether the 
publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media 
publication.4 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on material from reuters.com and 
rumbominero.com. The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from reuters.com of an announcement 
simply stating "* I I-[the Petitioner] as company chief financial officer." The document 
contains no additional context or discussion, and the Petitioner did not demonstrate how a blurb 
qualifies as published material about the Petitioner relating to his work consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. In addition, the screenshot indicates that the snippet was "By Reuters Staff" However, the 
Petitioner did not identify the specific author among the Reuters Staff. 
Further, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted two articles posted on 
rumbominero.com. One article, dated I I 2023, occurred after the filing of the petition. 
Eligibility must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter ofKatigbak, 
14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Regardless, neither article reflects published material 
about the Petitioner. Instead, the articles report on I I"OCA 
Lithium Project." The published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in 
the field, not just about the person's employer and the employer's work or another organization and 
that organization's work. 5 The person and the person's work need not be the only subject of the 
material; published material See also, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 
(D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Here, the Petitioner is never mentioned in either of the articles, let alone regarding him, and therefore 
do not show published material about the Petitioner as required by this regulatory criterion. As such, 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
5 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 
we need not determine whether rumbominero.com represents a professional or major trade publication 
or other major medium. 6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
USCIS determines whether the person has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specification.7 The petitioner must show that the person has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the person actually participated in the judging of the work of 
others in the same or allied field of specialization. 8 For example, a petitioner might document the 
person's peer review work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the 
review, accompanied by evidence confirming that the person actually completed the review. 9 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on judging at Distributive Education Clubs of 
America (DECA). The record reflects the Petitioner submitted a letter from M-C-who stated: 
CMA [Certified Management Accountants of Ontario] actively participated in many 
business conferences where our members were involved to judge case competitions -
predominantly for university students -and [the Petitioner] was among our ideal 
candidates given the breadth of his knowledge and business experience. He not only 
judged at DECA ... for a number of years but he also judged case competitions at the 
University of Toronto. 
The letter, however, does not contain specific, detailed information reflecting probative evidence of 
the Petitioner's judging experience. For example, the letter does not include names of individuals, 
titles of competitions, or dates of judging. In addition, the Petitioner did not offer any evidence to 
support the claims in the letter. Without additional information or evidence, the Petitioner's 
submission of letter that makes vague claims is insufficient to fulfill this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show he satisfies this criterion. 
6 See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(1) (in evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended business audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
7 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
9 Id. 
5 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 10 USCIS then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 11 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 12 
At the outset, the Petitioner references three of our non-precedent decisions and asserts that 
"[b]]usinessmen with far less contributions have been approved by the AAO" and claims that 
"[b]eneficiary was a CEO of just one company and their petition was approved," "CEO of just two 
companies and got approved," and "[c]o-founder of just one company." These decisions were not 
published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officer in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(c). Furthermore, the issue for this criterion is not the number of executive positions or co­
founding credits by an individual. Compare 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requiring, in part, the 
individual to have performed in a leading or critical role. Rather, the individual must have made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 13 
The Petitioner further asserts that he "has ten times the contributions of these business people" but 
does not further elaborate, specifically identify his contributions, or explain how his contributions are 
ten times more. Unsubstantiated assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 
I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and 
thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). Regardless, simply making contributions is not 
sufficient to meet this criterion unless the Petitioner shows those contributions have been majorly 
significantly in the field. 14 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner argues that his "methodologies have been adopted by 
companies that he directs and also non related companies" and references three recommendation 
letters. Although the letters highly praise the Petitioner for his work for various companies, they do 
not identify the Petitioner's contributions and explain how they have been majorly significant in the 
field. Instead, the letters make broad claims regarding his work in his positions for companies. For 
instance, "[the Petitioner] holds immense importance throughout our organization, considering the 
global reach and industry landscape as we operate in 8 different countries," and "[the Petitioner] has 
consistently demonstrated exemplary performance, characterized by a persistent drive for excellence 
10 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
11 Id. 
12 Id. 
13 See also generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the 
person's original work constitutes major, significant contributions in the field). 
14 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (evidence that the person's work was funded, patented, or 
published while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work 
is of major significance in the field). 
6 
and an untiring dedication to accomplish our company's financial goals and execute the board of 
director's directives" (C-A-); "[the Petitioner] has exhibited outstanding leadership, expertise, and a 
deep comprehension of financial, both capital market regulations as well as financial engineering and 
drafting of financial statement in addition to the real estate industry," and "[t]he financial decisions 
and strategies implemented by [ the Petitioner] directly impact our company's performance, investment 
decisions, and contribute to the economic growth and stability, while providing a stable predictable 
dividend to our shareholders residing throughout the United States and Canada" (S-W-); and "[t]he 
financial decisions and strategies implemented by our CFO directly influence our company's 
performance, and investment decisions, and ultimately contribute to the economic growth and stability 
of our national and that of the United States," and "[ww ]ithin our organization, he has identified and 
judged the financial projections and costs of various Lithium proposals and through his hard work and 
special skills, was responsible for us to be able to acquire the m 
Ontario, Canada" (R-S-). 
As evidenced above, the letters reflect how much his employers value the Petitioner to their 
companies. However, the letters do not explain what the Petitioner has contributed in the field and 
how those contributions are considered to be of major significance in the field. In addition, the letters 
make general claims and point to the Petitioner's impact on the individual companies rather than on 
the overall field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Moreover, the letters do not articulate how the Petitioner's performances in his roles at the companies 
somehow influenced or affected the field in a significantly major manner. 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance. 15 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 16 
In this case, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner has made 
original contributions ofmajor significance. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 
1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies four categories of evidence, discussed above. Although 
the Petitioner also argues eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional 
grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement ofthree under 8 C.F.R. 
15 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
16 Id. 
7 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 17 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
17 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15878036 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 12, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public relations professional, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A),8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner established that he satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, the 
record did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten crite1ia 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in ce1iain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is currently employed as the Director of Communications, USA 
fo~ I He has nearly 20 years of experience in the media and public relations field, 
including 13 years performing in senior roles for major internationad I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence in support of six of the ten criteria, 
and the Director determined that the Petitioner met three of those evidentiary criteria, relating to 
judging, leading or critical roles, and high salary, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and (ix). The 
Director then proceeded to a final merits determination and concluded that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he has sustained national and international acclaim an dis among the small percentage 
at the very top of his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least one additional criterion, related to published 
materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media, at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(iii). He also maintains that the Director's decision failed to discuss much of the relevant 
evidence submitted in support of the petition and thus did not properly consider the record in its 
entirety when evaluating his eligibility for the benefit sought. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the 
regulatory criteria. Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, including evidence the 
Petitioner submitted in support of the published materials and other criteria, in the context of the final 
merits determination below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international acclaim, that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and that he is among 
the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3);see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 After 
evaluating the evidence in the aggregate, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that his 
achievements are reflective ofa "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R.Rep.No.101-723,59(Sept.19, 1990). 
After beginning his career in publishing and operating a public relations consulting business in the I I industry, the Petitioner has spent the last 13 years of his career in senior, public-facing 
communications and public relation roles formajorinternationall I includin§~------~J 
I l(2007to2013),I 1(2013-2015),andl l(since2015). Theevidence 
establishes that the Petitioner has held critical or leading roles with each of thesel I that 
contributed significantly to the companies' profits, image, and brand awareness, while also garnering 
the Petitioner individual acclaim and recognition as an expert in his field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner first earned international recognition in the industry for 
~-------~award-winningl tpublic relations and social media campaign 
in 2010, in which more thaQcouples competed to participate in the world's I I 
L JI I Deputy CEO and Executive Vice President for 
'~--------~Icon-firms that the Petitioner "initiated the idea and concept," and managed all 
aspects of this campaign. She notes that the campai~" arnered media attention worldwide," "quickly 
became the most covered ro-active news item in histo " and earned the airline "instant 
recognition within the communities across the 
globe." further states: .__ ______ ____. 
No otherllitiative has come close to what thel !campaign 
achieved~, [the campaign] is one of the most memorable! lindustty 
campaigns in history. The campaign was widely reco ized as exceptional, earnin a 
I IA ward for best advertising campaign from a leadin 
news website; and the title of Innovator of the Year from the r----,. _____ _J 
I !Association; and much more recognition in the,___ _ _,industry and 
beyond. 
In addition to the awards mentioned above, w._.,._.. ........................... ~1-documented in the record, the Petitioner 
and! I were nominated fo "PR of the Year Award" and I ts 
Digital Communications Awards in the category in 2011. 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005. I, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
,__ ____ ~I President of the '----------,------------,,__ ___ __. which 
awarded the above-referenced "Innovator Award" to confirms that the 
Petitioner "created and led the campaign and acce ted the award on behalf of.__ ____ ____,' He 
explains that "what [ the Petitioner] did with his campaign ... was highly innovative 
and indeed ground breaking" as "the,__ ___ ~ campaign launched to the mainstream media 
worldwide and th~ I social media campaign."! I states that thel I 
invited the Petitioner personally to give a presentation of his successful strategy at its 2011 convention. 
He also credits the campaign with highlighting "the importance and relevance of thd I 
and states that "[t]he succes~ af this carooai: paved the way for otherl I brands to market 
themselves more openly to th~ _ I with a more mainstream approach." Other industry 
leaders who provided letters in support of the petition similarly discuss the influence of the campaign. 
~----_____.I and others also emphasize that the ~-------~ Campaign received 
"overwhelmingly positive media coverage worldwide" and the fact that the Petitioner, as the 
spokesperson for the campaign, was "featured extensively on TV, in radio and in print on a global 
level." The record contains ample evidence of the Petitioner's media appearances in this prominent 
spokesperson role (including an appearance on the BBC World New~ b. 
The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner himself was the featured subject of interviews in 
L------,r----'-'frofessional and trade publications such as I I and inD I ~s 
leadin agazine, in the years following the campaign. He also appeared on Good Morning 
~-____,to offer his insight as a specialist in marketing to thel_ I The Petitioner has 
demonstrated that, since relocating to the United States in 2015, he continues to be consulted by leaders 
in thL I sector who regard him as an expert and seek his insi t into initiatives aimed at 
maki~ I more inclusive. I I founder of.__ _________ ____. anl I 
communications and marketing company that represents Fortune 500 corporations, states in his letter 
that the Petitioner "has remained a leader in thel I' since the launch of thee:==] I I campaign. He states that the '"campaign has had a lasting impact on the globalc=] 
industry, even a decade later." Based on this and other evidence in the record, the Petitioner has 
demonstrated that he garnered sustained recognition in his field as a result of his work on this highly 
successful campaign fo~ I 
I former Vice President of Corporate Communications atl I states that th~ I 
~re_c_ru-it_e_d-th_e_P~etitionerto head the launch of itsl I service on the strength of his recognized 
success with thel I campaign and his reputation for creating innovative PR and media 
strategies. She explains that he had overall responsibility to launch c=Jto the worldwide media 
through a PR strategy and campaign that he devised, and emphasizes that the campaign "generated 
more than 2. 7 billion media impressions and media value of over $7 .0 million within two weeks of its 
launch." I l's successor,L~--~ states that the I I campaign "significantly 
overshadowed any other PR efforts ~~--~fshisrory." She also hi~lights 1"' the Petitioner 
initiated and spearheaded a humanitarian relief to Haiti that earned recognition as a 
finalist in the Social Good Awards' category. 
As noted
1 since 2015, the Petitioner has served in the executive role of Director of Communications, 
USA, fot1 I and he has provided evidence that he is compensated at a rate that is high 
compared to others in comparable positions...__ _______ _, Chief Communications Officer at ~---------~I states that the Petitioner was recruited to be the company's firstU.S.-based 
4 
employee, and~-·,· edia-facing spokesperson for the brand in the United States. In two 
detailed letters, highlights the Petitioner's implementation of award-winning campaijs, 
his leadership of the 's corporate social responsibility work, and his role asl _'s 
delegate in meetings and events with governors, senators, and mayors across the United States. She 
states that "[t]he U.S. is nowl~---~ts largest market by revenue and [the Petitioner] holds the 
highest management position in this market." She also emphasizes that he "has become one of the 
most sought-after and covere~ !spokespeople in the U.S." 
The supporting evidence corroborates! i's statements and demonstrates that the Petitioner 
has sustained and built on his acclaim and recognition in the field during his tenure atl I 
This evidence includes data from] I, a public relations and earned media software company 
and services provider, which indicates that the Petitioner's media mentions in 2019 ranked second 
among individuals serving in a director of communications roles forl I. I I 
President otLJ public relations firm! lstates that the Petitioner "is one of 
the key reasons behini Is monumental growth success here in the United States" and "one 
of the most prominen _ I spokespeople here in the United States. '1 I managing 
partner of independent marketing and communications firml I also comments on the 
Petitioner's status as "one of the most highly ranked spokespeople in te1ms of media appearances 
within thd I industry as a whole, a truly notew01ihy achievement given thatl I is 
much smaller than its competitors" in the U.S. market. 
.__ __ ___,I also credits the Petitioner with being "at the forefront of supp~o_rt_in~-~ 
his focus on various minorities." These efforts were recognize ........... ........_. ____ .........., ................................... .....,, 
Inclusion Award at the 20 I~ I which was c1·..=e-=a.:..:te:...::d=--b=:....L.L---~----r-----~a==.n 
online social community primarily for I iof color. '---..------.---'CEO of 
~xplains that the Petitioner has "whole-heartedly supported~_~of color acro.__ss_a_w-id_e_r_a_n-ge_. 
,__o_f-in__,itiatives" durin~e atl I including initiation of workshops and press/influencer 
trips aimed solely atL_Jinfluencers and journalists who are people of color. I lstates 
that although the Innovator Award feature~ ht is [the Petitioner's] valued efforts and 
initiatives that are at the core of this award," and "we deeply appreciate his game-changing dtersity I ~s both now and moving forward." The record reflects that the Petitioner served on the 
L_J Panel at thel 12020 event and that he continues to be fre[uently Invited to speak 
on podcasts, industry panels, and other platforms on subjects related to marketing and 
communications, based on his status as a recognized expert in the industry. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the record demonstrates that the 
Petitioner's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated 
by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record supports a 
finding that the Petitioner has achieved the required sustained national and international acclaim and 
is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 2 04. 5 (h )(3 )(i)-(x ). He has also demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustainednational 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Finally, 
5 
he has also established that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his 
admission will benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16493399 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 12, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mountaineering and rock-climbing guide and instructor, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(IXA), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The Petitioner subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider. The Director granted the motion, in part, but affirmed the denial of the petition on the 
same grounds. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Ibe Petitioner is a roauntaineerinu and b·ekkinu rxpedition guide and the sole proprietor of□ I , in Nepal. The Petitioner maintains that he has 
"extraordinary ability in the field of Athletics -Rock Climbing" and "has made an enormous national 
acclaim in the field of Rock Climbing in Nepal." The Petitioner indicates his intention to work as a 
rock-climbing coach in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet five of the ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials in professional, major trade or major media publications; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the field; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to awards and 
judging, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he satisfies the 
three additional criteria listed above. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we will not 
disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5 (h )(3 )(i). However, for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that he has not satisfied the 
requirements of any additional criteria and does not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the U.S. Nepal 
Climbers Association Inc. (USNCA), the~----------------~ and the 
Nepal Mountaineering Instructor' sAssociation (NMIA ), and as the "founding member" and proprietor 
of~---------------------~ To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 1 
With respect to USN CA, the Petitione1 providld: a copy of his membership card identifying him as a 
"Life Member" of the association as of 2020; a certificaterecognizingthat "Life Membership" 
was bestowed upon him in "in grateful appreciation for his unwavering support and contribution" to 
the association; and screenshots from the USNCA website listing the Petitioner ajong the I 
association's "Life Members." The Petitioner provided a letter from USNCAI I, I I who explains that there are two categories of membership (general and life) and that "[ a ]ny 
individual who have successfully summited at least a [ QQQm ta]) mountain is eligible to apply for the 
life-time membership and the general membership." .__ __ ~_.~efers USCIS to the association's 
website (usnepalclimbers.org) for membership requirements and explains that its board of directors 
will "scrutinize an individual's profile before providing membership." He also discusses some of the 
Petitioner's achievements. The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's achievements are 
noteworthy but determined that neither I l's letter nor the information provided on the 
association's website provided information indicating that "outstanding achievements" are an essential 
condition for life membership in the USN CA. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again refers to the membership program requirements found at the USN CA 
website, emphasizes the "stringent membership criteria for Life Membership," and provides a 
screenshot of the relevant page from the website. According to this infonnation, Life Membership "is 
awarded to those members who have contributed to the tourism sector throughout their professional 
career as a trekking guide," while General Membership is available to "any individual who has 
successfully summitted at least a 5000m tall mountain." To be eligible for Life Membership, 
applicants "must have guided for a minimum of 7 years, must have certification on a mountaineering 
climbing course, and must have climbed a peak above 6000m at least 4 times." 
The Petitioner has not shown that life membership in the USN CA requires outstanding achievements, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. The record reflects thatthe USN CA requires 
a certain level of professional experience as a trekking guide, an industry certification, and four 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicators Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguishedachievementsin 
origin a I research). 
3 
qualifying climbs. Here, the Petitioner does not demonstrate that possessing the stated experience is 
indicative of outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. While USNCA's 
board of directors may consider other factors when evaluating membership applications, we can only 
evaluate the association's statedmembership requirements as documented in the record. The Petitioner 
has not provided, for example, the organization's bylaws or constitution or information from the 
organization regarding its application review process or standards. The USN CA may have detennined 
that the Petitioner has outstanding achievements in the field, above and beyond the stated professional 
experience and certification membership requirements, when granting his life membership. However, 
it is the Petitioner's burden to establish USN CA requires outstanding achievements as an essential 
condition of membership for every life member admitted and he has not met that burden. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility under this criterion based on his "Honorary Lifelong 
Membership" itj [ He initially submitted a ce1iificate fro~ I indicating that "[t]his honor 
recognizes his commitment demonstrated towards the programs, activities and ideas" of the 
association, but he did not provide supporting evidence demonstratingthatl !requires outstanding 
achievement as a condition for membership. The Director advised the Petitioner of this deficiency in 
a request for evidence (RFE) and allowed him the opportunity to submit additional evidence, such as 
the sections of the association's bylaws or constitution discussing the criteria for membership and the 
qualifications required for those who serve on its membership reviewing panel. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I lwho states 
that "the constitution ofl I provides three categories of membership -General, Honorary 
and Lifelong membership." He indicates that the categories have different requirements but does not 
specify what those requirements are. I lgoes on to discuss the Petitioner's "Honoraiy 
Membership" and his contributions to rock-climbing and mountaineering in Nepal. He concludes that 
"[t]herefore, as per the regulation of agency and subject to the provision of our constitution, the 
executive committee of the organization recognized [the Petitioner's] national contribution and 
decided to honor him with lifelong µi.e.m.be.fship of this association in 2019." The Director determined 
that the Petitioner's membership inl__J did not satisfy the criterion because the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence related to the membership requirements for each membership category mentioned 
id._ ___ ..... ~'s letter. The Director also observed that thel !website did not contain information 
about the general, honorary, and lifelong membership categories mentioned b~ I 
On motion, the Petitioner submitted another letter froml l who states that 'l I had 
updated its website with the classification of its members and other information." He also provided 
a screenshot from the website! I that lists the Petitioner as a "Lifelong Member (Honoraiy)" 
This evidence states that "the committee has taken this decision based on lifelong membership criteria 
stated in the organization's constitution," noting that "honorary lifelong membership" is those "who 
have shown leadership in the tourism industry of Nepal for at least 15 years" and "contributed 
significantly to sectors including rock climbing, mountaineering, trekking, coaching, hospitality and 
safari." The Director acknowledged this evidence but emphasized that the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence thatl I requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition for membership, or 
evidence that the individuals who review prospective members are recognized as national or 
international experts. Thepire..c.tpr also observed that the Petitioner had not submitted the relevant 
portions of the referenced L_J constitution which would shed light on its requirements for different 
4 
levels of membership, the membership review process, and the credentials of the "executive 
committee" that considers admission of members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits the above-referenced screenshot from the I I website as 
evidence that he has been recognized as an honorary lifelong member. However, he does not address 
the evidentiary deficiencies mentioned in the Director's decision on motion, such as the lack of 
evidence outlining the requirements for different levels of membership mentioned iJ i's letter 
and the lack of evidence that those who participate in the membership review process are recognized 
national or international experts in the field. Further, based on the limited information provided 
regarding the "honorary lifelong membership" category, we cannot determine that 15 years of 
experience and undefined "contributions" in the field amounts to a requirement that all members at 
this level must demonstrate outstanding achievements. 
For the first time on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he qualifies under this criterion based on his 
membership with the NMIA. He submits a letter from NMIAI I, who describes 
the Petitioner as a "key resource person" for the association and states that it has approached him to 
become one of its advisors. However, he does not state that the Petitioner was granted membership in 
NMIA or that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements of its members as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1is. The record includes a certificate issued to the 
Petitioner by NMIA for completion of a ~Basic Mountain Navigation and Hill Walking Course" in 
2006 and evidence that he completed a "High Mountain Rescue Training" course conducted by NMIA 
in 2011, but does not document his membership in this association. 
As noted, the Petitioner also claims eli ibili under this criterion based on his status as the "founding 
member" and proprietor of~---------------------~ We agree with 
the Director's determination that the Petitioner's ownership of this private business does not qualify 
as or equate to a "membership in an association" that admits members based on their outstanding 
achievements. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner's appellate brief mentions that he "is a Charter Founder Member 
of two reputed International organizations, Kiwanis International and Rotary Club of Boudha 
(Kathmandu)." The record reflects that the Petitioner's initial evidence included documentation of his 
membership with these organizations. However, despite multiple opportunities to do so, he has not 
submitted evidence that either organization requires outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. We note that the 
international reputation of a given organization is not a relevant consideration when evaluating 
whether his membership satisfies this criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
5 
The Petitioner submitted 18 articles from various publications in Nepal, including Gorkhapatra, 
Annapurna Post, Nepal Samacha,patra, Taja Khabar Weekly, Nami Weekly, Rastra Vani magazine, 
Madhyanha,Naya Patrika and Guide Nepal. 2 Not every submitted article meets all required elements 
of the regulation at 8 C,F,R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), as some do not identify the author. An article titled I I' published by Ghorkhapatra inO2019, mentions the Petitioner and his 
company, butis not about him. However, upon review, many of the submitted aiiicles are about the 
Petitioner, relate to his work in the mountaineering and rock-climbing field, and include the required 
title, date and author of the material and an English translation. 
Therefore, to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that these articles were published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. The Petitioner's evidence should 
establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show who the intended audience of the publication is. 3 
The initial evidence included a letter from a representative of Press Council Nepal who certifies the 
"grading" of the publications in which the articles were published. Specifically, the representative 
states thatAnnapurna Post, Gorkhapatra, Naya Patrika, and Nepal Samacharpatra are daily "National 
'A' Grade" publications, Madhyanha and Taja Khabar are "National 'B' Grade" publications and 
Nami is a "Local 'C' Grade." However, the letter did not provide an explanation of this publication 
grading system, nor did the Petitioner submit any additional evidence explaining the system. The 
Petitioner has emphasized that Press Council Nepal "is the regulating agency of media in Nepal," and 
"prescribes and classifies the 'Category of News Papers' based on the prescribed rules." However, 
these "prescribed rules" are not explained or documented. Without additional context and information 
regarding the relative circulation statistics of these publications, we cannot conclude, for example, that 
all 'A' Grade publications would automatically qualify as major media. 
The Petitioner subsequently submitted letters from the publishers of eight newspapers, but this 
additional evidence was not sufficient to demonstrate that any of these publications qualifies as major 
media. 4 For example, a letter from the editor-in-chief of Gorkhapatra states that it is the oldest 
national daily newspaper in Nepal and mentions the topics covered by the paper. The editor of the 
Annapurna Post describes the publication as "a national daily newspaper" and confirms that it has 
published articles about the Petitioner. The news chief of Nepal Samcharpatra mentions that the 
newspaper has a circulation of 60,000 copies daily but there is no context for us to evaluate how this 
circulation figure compares to that of other newspapers in Nepal. The editor of Madhyanha National 
Daily states that this publication "ranks within top 25 among the daily newspaper," but is not 
accompanied by independent evidence of newspaper rankings within Nepal, and it is unclear whether 
the referenced rankings were based on circulation or some other measure. The Petitioner has not 
shown that he meets this criterion based on the submitted newspaper articles. 
As noted the Petitioner also submitted an exce t from the 2019 issue of Guide Ne al a 
It is unclear '------------------------------------' 
2 The referenced articles are related to the Petitioner's work in the field ofmountaineeringandrockclimbing. He submitted 
eight additional articles which discuss his involvement in social welfare activities in Nepal. 
3 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 7. 
4 While we discuss only a sampling of these letters here, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
whether the article, which does not identify an author as required by the regulation, is an article about 
the Petitioner authored by the publisher, or whether it is part of the advertisement for the Petitioner's 
company. The Petitioner also did not provide evidence demonstrating the intended audience or 
circulation figures for Guide Nepal. Although it isl I, an association in the 
Petitioner's field, the fact that it is published in the English language suggests that its intended 
audience may be foreign visitors in Nepal, rather than professionals in the field. The Petitioner did 
not establish that Guide Nepal is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classtfication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion, and the record reflects that the 
Director reached this conclusion based solely on the Petitioner's initial evidence. We will withdraw 
the Director's determination that this criterion has been met. 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included: 
• All2019 letter from~----------~ who states: "[The Petitioner] has w~s member of jury for rock climbing competition organized byl I on D 
I 1201 0." 
• Al I 2008 letter froml,_ ____ ___,INMIA, who states: "[The Petitioner] has 
been appointed imbing Training Competition organized 
by [NMIA] fro 2008." 
• An I I 2019 letter from 
who states that the Petitioner 
participated as a jury member of a "talk show about potential trek and climbing destination in 
lower Everest region and poetry competition." He indicates that the talk show was part of the 
I I organized by I I 
The Petitioner also provided two photographs that depict him among groups of unidentified people 
with the handwritten captions: "Petitioner performingjury member in the competition" and "Petitioner 
as a jury member in the competition." 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide evidence corroborating the letters from these organizations, such 
as documentation detailing his responsibilities as a jury member for the referenced rock-climbing 
competitions or any other evidence regarding these competitions and how they were judged. Without 
this evidence, we cannot determine that his role as a "member of jury" involvingjudging the work of 
others in his field. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientifzc, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions o_f major signifzcance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
7 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 5 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner documented his accomplishments as a mountaineering 
guide and tourism entrepreneur and acknowledged evidence that he has constructed rock-climbing 
routes and promoted rock climbing tourism in Nepal. The Director noted that such achievements are 
not irrelevant, but he also emphasized the Petitioner's intention to work in the field of coaching and 
concluded that the Petitioner had not provided evidence demonstrating that he had made original 
contributions of major significance relevant to training or coaching rock climbers. He observed, for 
example, that the Petitioner did not establish that he had developed "original coaching techniques that 
had been widely adopted throughout the sport of rock climbing or significantly influenced rock 
climbing competitors and instructors." 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the newly submitted letter froml lofNMIA 
demonstrates "his outstanding original contributions and continued engagement as an expe1i coach in 
the field of mountaineering and rock climbing. "I I indicates that the Petitioner has been "a 
key resource person" who helped design NMIA' s courses in mountaineering, climbing, rock-climbing, 
mountain rescue and mountain navigation. He states that the Petitioner's "outstanding original 
contributions" in the area of coaching and training include: (1) design, development and 
implementation of NMIA's Basic and High Mountain Rescue Training Program; (2) design, 
development and installation of"the Night Rock Climbing"; (3) design, development and installation 
of 19 rock climbing venues and routes in Nepal; (4) design and development of the NMIA Instructors 
Selection process; and design and development of the rock-climbing course syllabus and course. 
The Petitioner also submits supplemental evidence, primarily consisting of notices announcing 
NMIA's training courses in the above-referenced areas. However, the record does not contain further 
evidence of his participation in creating these courses and we note that the Petitioner did not previously 
claim eligibility under this criterion based on his development of training courses, techniques or 
materials on behalf of NMIA. The record does not support a determination that the Petitioner has 
developed original training techniques that have widely impacted or influenced his field. 
Prior to submitting this new evidence on appeal, the Petitioner had consistently maintained that his 
major contribution to his field is "initiating the concept of Rock Climbing in Nepal." Specifically, he 
emphasized the importance of rock climbing as an essential skill for those participating in advanced 
mountaineering expeditions and stated that he "opened 19 rock climbing routes in Nepal where a 
climber [can] get trained before going to the mountain." The testimonial evidence in the record, as 
well as his awards and published materials about him, demonstrate that he received some recognition 
for undertaking the opening of these climbing routes in 2018 and 2019. 
5 Sec USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing an example that although funded and published 
work maybe "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
8 
For example, a letter frotJ O I of Iceland Trekking and Expedition Pvt. Ltd 
states that the Petitioner is "one of the initiator[ s] to work in rock climbing sector ofN epal" and states 
that "the rock climbing spot initiated by him is now being used fortrainingpurposes like NMA [Nepal 
Mountaineering Association], and [NMIA]." I lstates that the Petitioner "initiated a Rock 
Climbing in Nepal which is an essential component for a mountaineering professional before going to 
climb high mountains." He explains that "[t]raining on rock climbing not only helps climbers to 
clim[b] the mountain successfully, but also helps for the rescue of the climbers in case they are in 
troubles during expedition or trekking. "I I anl I I O J states that the Petitioner has made an "extraordinary contribution in the field of tourism in 
Nepal," noting that "despite the huge scope of the tourism in Nepal, the area of rock climbing was not 
open professionally for sport or as a main profession of tourism." 
Although the letters praise the Petitioner for his efforts to expand the availability of rock-climbing 
courses in Nepal and explain the benefits of rock climbing training, they do not contain specific, 
detailed information explaining how his contributions have been both original and of major 
significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
The Petitioner also submitted several news a er articles that mention his role in the construction and 
enhancement of roe -Fi=m=b'-"i=n-=--"r"""o""'u-'-te=s'-1=·nc.L.- ___ ---'-"-N"""'a""'t"""io'""n=a=l'""'P""'a=r"',k. A September 2018 article from 
A notes that.__ _______ _. 
L...---------------------~ noting that"[ o ]nly some routes built up by 
foreigners were used for climbing." The aiiicle mentions that '---------------~ 
routes for rock climbing were started for ex ansion in the investment of private sector'' 
and mentions the Petitioner's work 'Another 2018 article 
from Anna urna Post titled mentions that 
'-----' 'noting that "guides are united to make hub of rock climbing in each district so that it will 
contribute for the development of tourism sector." The article mentions that, in Nepal, rock climbing 
is available in several locations (and not only thel 1 I National Park project in which the 
Petitioner was involved) and highlights that the "private sector has been assisting in developing, 
exploring and expanding rock climbing routes." 
The evidence indicates that the Petitioner has been a key figure among more widespread private sector 
efforts to expand the availability of rock climbing areas in Nepal's tourism industry. While these 
efforts may be consideredrelatively novel in Nepal, it is unclear how the construction ofrock climbing 
routes by traditional means is "original" or how the Petitioner's work has already influenced or 
impacted the field in a way that is of major significance. Further, while the Petitioner has received 
recognition for his recent development and enhancement of rock-climbing routes inl I 
National Park, the record lacks support for claims that he was the sole initiator or originator of rock­
climbing in Nepal. 
6 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 8-9. 
7Id.at9. 
9 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25425005 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 12, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cancer research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician specializing in cancer research. He received his Doctor of Medicine 
degree from I !Medical University in 2011. At the time of filing in July 2022, he was 
employed as a physician and researcher in the abdominal oncology department of the National Medical 
Research Center for Oncology in !Russia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner met two of the criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two additional criteria, 
membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and original contributions of major 
significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). We will discuss the other 
claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that membership in the association requires 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized 
2 
national or international experts. 1 The Petitioner claims he meets this criterion based upon his 
membership in the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) and the Russian Society of 
Oncologic Urologists (RSOU). 2 
Regarding ASCO, within his response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence of his membership and an article from ASCO titled "American Society of Clinical Oncology 
Criteria for High-Quality Clinical Pathways in Oncology." The article provides ASCO's criteria to 
assess the quality of pathway programs used by health plans and medical providers. On appeal, the 
Petitioner provides an online printout from ASCO' s website, indicating that the organization offers "a 
variety of membership categories and benefits designed to fit your career stage and specific needs." 
The above documents establish that ASCO is a professional association representing physicians and 
other health care professionals working in the field of oncology. There is no evidence (such as 
membership bylaws or other official documentation of membership criteria) showing ASCO's 
admission requirements, or that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements for membership with ASCO. 
Pertaining to RSOU, the Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership, the society's charter dated 
2018, and information about other members of the organization, including its president, executive 
director, and several board members. The Petitioner did not establish that the RSOU membership 
requirements rise to the level of "outstanding achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Instead, based on the presented documentation, RSOU membership is open to those who "have 
reached the age of 18, who are oncologists, oncourologists, chemotherapists, radiologists, 
pathomorphologists, or specialists in related fields, who have a high professional level recognized by 
leading experts in the industry." The charter also indicates that membership decisions are made by a 
simple majority vote of members of the relevant bureau, either of a regional office or of RSOU. 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence that RSOU requires anything other than the Petitioner having 
attained certain educational requirements to become a member of the organization. The stated 
educational requirements of the organization are not outstanding achievements. Although RSOU 
requires that prospective members provide evidence of "a high professional level," the record does not 
establish the process by which prospective members are evaluated by the relevant bureau. Therefore, 
the evidence does not demonstrate that RSOU imposes an additional qualitative criterion that amounts 
to an "outstanding achievement" requirement. Although on appeal the Petitioner highlights the fact 
that RSOU "votes on whether to accept members," this would be commensurate with many 
associations, as membership in any society must be reviewed and evaluated before acceptance. There 
is nothing to indicate that the RSOU selects members on the basis of outstanding achievements. 
In this case, the evidence does not demonstrate that ASCO or RSOU selects members based on 
outstanding achievements. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he 
satisfies this criterion. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with other associations; however, 
he does not argue on appeal, nor does the record reflect, his eligibility based on those associations. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his contributions are not only original, 
but also "of major significance in the field."3 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner's statement provides that his scientific interest is "related to malignant tumors, their 
diagnosis and overcoming resistance to therapy." Specifically, his research work in Russia and the 
United States has involved "biomarkers that make it possible to predict the course of disease in patients 
with colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, and lung cancer." He indicated that his work focused on 
thel I known to show increased activity in some types of cancers. 
As stated, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original contributions and 
explain why they are of major significance in the field. Although the Petitioner provided evidence 
reflecting the originality of his research through recommendation letters praising him for his 
contributions, the authors do not provide specific examples of contributions that are indicative of major 
significance. 4 
In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in 
journals, and comment on their potential and possible future applications. But the letters do not 
demonstrate that his research has made the required impact in the field. For example, Dr. E-A-G, 
professor of molecular therapeutics at I I states that the Petitioner worked with 
her laboratory on two scientific studies. She indicates that one project was the first to show the 
possibility of using the I protein as a diagnostic biomarker and a possible therapeutic target 
for non-small cell lung cancer. That scientific work was published in Oncogenesis in 2021. She 
provides that the Petitioner "performed extensive work using cell line models for this project, as well 
as much of the patient-related research and interpretation of obtained data." 
Regarding an additional project with her laboratory, Dr. E-A-G-states the Petitioner studied the role 
of the 1 _ as a biomarker in 125 patients with colorectal cancer and in patients with 
colon polyps. The Petitioner's study, published in Plos ONE in 2021, found that elevated levels of I lwere associated with worse prognosis, metastasis, and risk of relapse following treatment, 
and indicated I I increase is an early step in cancer development. She asserts that the 
Petitioner's findings, coupled with other published work, support the use of _____ __,levels 
as a new diagnostic biomarker in patients with colorectal cancer, and suggest the utility of developing 
drugs to target! for the prevention of malignant tumors. 
3 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (providing guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy 
the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that although funded and published work may be "original," 
this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 While we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
Dr. E-A-G-indicates that the research projects the Petitioner has performed "are of great importance 
for the development of new methods of treatment and diagnosis of cancer," but she does not explain 
how other researchers have used this information to date, nor does the record show that diagnostic or 
therapeutic treatments have been derived from those particular research projects. 
Additional letters of support from the Petitioner's colleagues at ________ including 
Dr. A-K-and Dr. I-A-, summarize the Petitioner's research work at that institution. Dr. I-A­
characterizes the Petitioner's findings as "a significant contribution to the development of diagnosis 
and prevention of colorectal cancer." His letter does not sufficiently detail in what ways the Petitioner 
has advanced the state of research in his field or elaborate on how the Petitioner's work has already 
impacted the wider field beyond the team ofresearchers that has directly cited his article on this topic. 
Further, the Petitioner provided letters from Dr. V-T-, a research fellow at thel I 
_____ and the Petitioner's mentor at thel I for Oncology. 
Dr. V-T-states that the Petitioner was responsible for the development and implementation of a new 
protocol,! for the treatment of esophageal cancer at the cancer center of 
thel I for Oncology. He asserts the new protocol "significantly 
improved the long term outcomes of treatment in patients in our community." 
Moreover, letters from Dr. Y-B-, an oncologist at indicates he collaborated 
with the Petitioner, both on the aforementioned research ro · ects at and on 
two separate projects. Regarding the Petitioner's work at he asserts "[t]he 
results shown by [ the Petitioner] in his research of the new biomarker ____ in colorectal cancer 
are [a] major contribution and have great significance to the development of health care, science and 
improving of cancer patients' life." However, he does not discuss in detail how the Petitioner's work 
has already remarkably impacted their shared field, or provide examples of specific applications 
attributed to the Petitioner's work in this area. 
Regarding the two additional projects referenced by Dr. Y-B-, he indicates one involved a patient 
study that "revealed 9 significantly up-regulated proteins, and 1 significantly down-regulated protein 
in colorectal cancer tissue." Regarding the study's significance, Dr. Y-B-states that "for the first time 
we have shown previously unknown information about 9 proteins in colorectal cancer." Relating to 
the second project, he provides that scientific work analyzed new therapeutic options and targets for 
glioblastoma multiforrne. He indicates the results of these projects were published, respectively, in 
The Protein Journal and the International Journal of Oncology. 
The letters considered above, solicited from the Petitioner's collea ues at I for Oncology, and primarily contain 
attestations of the significance of the Petitioner's research studies without providing specific examples 
of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
5 
USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. Attorney General, 745 F. Supp. 
9, 15 (D.D.C. 1990). 
The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research 
findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field, or explain how his 
research findings have already made a "major contribution and have great significance to the 
development of health care," as asserted. Simply stating that the work is important or that it has 
potential to majorly impact the field in the future is not sufficient. Without additional detail explaining 
his accomplishments relating to new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters discussed above 
do not establish that the Petitioner's research has had a demonstrable impact in his field commensurate 
with a contribution of major significance. 
In addition to the submitted expert opinion letters, the Petitioner references his overall citation record, 
provides copies of articles that include what he considers to be notable citations to his work, and 
submits the ranking of the journal that has published his most-cited work. Regarding his citations, 
within his initial submission the Petitioner provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting his 20 
scholarly publications have received 31 cumulative citations. Specifically, the record shows that his 
two most-cited articles at the time of filing received 9 (The Protein Journal) and 6 (Oncogenesis), 
citations, respectively. 7 
Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a 
petitioner's work; however, the fact that a petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. Rather, the appropriate 
analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown that his findings, factoring in citations and 
other corroborating evidence, have been considered important at a level consistent with original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 
We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "8 Here, the Petitioner did not explain 
how the noted citation rates demonstrate that his research was considered to be an original scientific 
contribution of major significance, and the referenced expert opinion letters did not discuss these 
individual publications and their impact within the field. Rather, a review of the submitted articles 
that reference the Petitioner's research does not show the significance of his contributions to the 
overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. 
For instance, the Petitioner provided an article entitled 
published in Cancers in 2022, in which the authors 
cited to his most-cited article.9 However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's 
written work from that of the other 182 cited papers, or support his claim that his research has had a 
major impact on other researchers. In fact, the authors' citations indicate that the Petitioner's research 
7 The Petitioner's remaining 18 articles each garnered between O and 3 citations. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
9 Although we discuss a sample article referencing the Petitioner's work, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
group was one of three groups who have confirmed that increased levels of lwere shown 
to be a marker for nonmetastatic colon cancer. This evidence confirms that others, in the United States 
and abroad, were able to build upon the Petitioner's work and apply it to their own research. But it 
does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of oncology rises to the level of an 
original contribution of major significance. 
We also acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that his most-cited work was published in a journal with 
a high ranking based on its impact factor. However, a publication's high ranking or impact is reflective 
of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not demonstrate the influence of any particular author 
within the field, how an author's research impacted the field, or establish a contribution of major 
significance in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings and 
the reference letters from his fellow oncology physicians establishes that the Petitioner has been a 
productive researcher. This evidence also shows that his published data and findings have been relied 
upon by others in their own research, and perhaps impacted treatment protocol in the hospital where he 
is employed. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original contribution of major 
significance in the field of oncology. Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. I 01-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 26351439 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer and entrepreneur, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the record showed 
that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification, it did not establish that 
she has national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of her field. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recogrnt10n of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a fashion designer and the co-founder and CEO of 
Colombia, with several clothing stores and franchises in Colombia operating under the brand 
She is also the owner and CEO of ,I a Florida company which does business as I I and 
distributes the company's clothing in the United States. The Petitioner states that she intends to 
continue working in the United State to expand the brand into additional areas. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about her and her work, 
participation as a judge of the work of others, and display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. However, the Director concluded in his final merits determination that the Petitioner did 
not have the requisite acclaim and standing in her field to qualify as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the criterion pertaining to commercial 
success in the performing arts, and that she otherwise qualifies for the requested classification. 1 She 
also submits additional information with her brief. Where, as here, a petitioner has been put on notice 
of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the 
AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 
764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). As the Director notified the 
Petitioner in his request for evidence (RFE) of the deficiencies in the evidence she initially submitted 
1 The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's conclusions that she does not meet the cntena at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii),(v) and (ix), relating to evidence of her membership in associations which require outstanding 
achievements, her original business contributions of major significance, and her salary, respectively. In general, we will 
not address issues that were not raised with specificity on appeal. We will therefore consider these issues to be waived. 
See, e.g., Matter o(M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
and provided her an opportunity to respond, which she did, we will not consider the new evidence 
submitted on appeal. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that she 
meets the initial evidence requirements, and conclude that she is not eligible for the requested 
classification. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner meets this criterion, but did not provide an analysis of the 
evidence presented or explain his reasoning. We note that the plain language of this criterion requires 
that the evidence of published material include the title, date, and author of the material. In this case, 
the majority of the articles submitted, while they are about the Petitioner and her work as a fashion 
designer and entrepreneur, do not include the name of the author. One article, published on the website 
of El Hera/do de Mexico, includes the author's name as well as the other required information, and 
the evidence establishes that it qualifies as a major medium. We therefore conclude that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she was a member of the jury for the _________________ beauty pageants in 2020, which can be considered 
an allied field to her specialization of fashion design. We agree with the Director that she meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
This criterion requires evidence that the individual's work has been displayed at an exhibition or 
showcase that is artistic in nature. The Petitioner submitted evidence that she exhibited clothing under 
the I I brand on three occasions at the ___________ Market, and at the I levent in I But there is no indication in the record that these events are artistic in 
nature. For example, the materials describing the __________ Market indicate that 
it is a commercial exhibition "for the business of fashion," and is attended by buyers representing 
boutiques and department stores. As such, we disagree with the Director and withdraw his conclusion 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
3 
In his decision, the Director stated only that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish that she 
meets this requirement. On appeal, the Petitioner submits definitions of the words "commercial" and 
"success", concluding that the phrase means that "the performing arts have made a lot of money 
commercially." However, the Petitioner has not established that she is a performing artist, nor has she 
submitted evidence of the type specifically called for in the regulation. While the Petitioner submitted 
a letter from an accountant in response to the RFE which attested to her income and net worth, there 
is no suggestion that she earned this income as a performing artist. We therefore conclude that she 
does not meet this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because of our withdrawal of the Director's affirmative conclusion regarding the criterion related to 
artistic displays of the Petitioner's work, we conclude that she does not meet the initial evidence 
requirement of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten 
criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the entire record and conclude that it does not 
establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that their achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
While the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner's work as a fashion designer and entrepreneur 
has been well received in her home country of Colombia, he concluded that the evidence did not show 
that it had received sustained national or international acclaim or that she is one of the small percentage 
at the very top of those fields. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to new evidence of her participation in 
additional trade exhibitions, a client suggesting that she has sold her apparel to more than 150 
boutiques, and evidence that a national retailer in the United States has ordered some of her apparel. 
As noted above, we will not consider this newly submitted evidence on appeal. In addition, eligibility 
for an immigration benefit must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); 
Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a 
future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N 
Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 
1981 ), further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the 
filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
While the Petitioner asserts that she has achieved international recognition and has risen to the top of 
her field through the establishment of her business and the sale of her apparel in Colombia, Ecuador, 
and the United States, the record does not include sufficient evidence that she has achieved the 
sustained recognition necessary for this highly restrictive immigrant visa classification. For example, 
media coverage of the Petitioner and her brand was almost exclusively published within the year 
before the filing of her petition. Further, the record does not adequately document any financial 
success for as a business or for the Petitioner personally. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23373821 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a theatrical producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and commercial successes).1 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).2 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner 
met the criteria relating to published material, display, leading or critical role, and commercial 
successes, but determined that he did not satisfy the awards criterion. 
As the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very high 
standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or did not properly evaluate evidence in 
the record, and that this evidence establishes that he qualifies under the high standards of this 
immigrant visa classification. The Petitioner further contends that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim as a theatrical producer, that his achievements have been recognized in the 
performing arts, that he is among the small percentage at the top of his field, and that his work will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The Petitioner first asserts that because he has satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he should qualify for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (indicating that USCTS officers 
should first "[a]ssess whether evidence meets regulatory criteria: Determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, which 
evidence submitted by a petitioner objectively meets the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type 
of evidence"). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
ability. Objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in the first step alone, however, does not establish 
that an individual in fact meets the requirements for classification as a person with extraordinary 
ability. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The question of whether the individual is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoys sustained national or international acclaim 
should be addressed in the final merits determination. The Kazarian decision sets forth the 
aforementioned multi-part analysis in which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first 
meets the initial evidence requirements of a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at 
least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Kazarian does not state that meeting 
three of these criteria establishes eligibility for this classification. Rather, the Kazarian decision 
discusses a two-part review where the evidence is first counted and then, if fulfilling the initial 
evidence requirements, considered in the context of a final merits determination to determine whether 
a petitioner is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor 
consistent with the statute and regulations for this restrictive classification. The Petitioner, therefore, 
has not established that the Director misapplied Kazarian or erred in proceeding to a final merits 
determination. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not properly consider all of the evidence submitted and 
improperly disregarded pieces ofrelevant documentary evidence. Upon de novo review, we agree with 
the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety 
and is lacking a detailed discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the 
Petitioner submitted evidence relating to five of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final 
merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence related to two of the criteria that the Director 
determined the Petitioner had satisfied (published material and leading or critical role), rather than 
considering the evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's decision did not address the 
evidence relating to display of the Petitioner's work and his commercial successes in the performing 
arts and whether that evidence shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that 
he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 3 The record also includes 
multiple letters of support from performing arts professionals in Brazil that address the Petitioner's 
standing in the field, as well as evidence related to the significance of his awards. Because the Director 
did not properly consider all of the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did 
not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested 
classification. 4 
In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown that his "entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States." Although neither the statute nor the regulations specifically 
define the statutory phrase "substantially benefit," it has been interpreted broadly. 5 Whether a 
petitioner demonstrates that their employment meets this requirement requires a fact-dependent 
assessment of the case. There is no standard rule as to what will substantially benefit the United 
3 Additionally, while the Director's decision acknowledged that the Petitioner "won awards," it did not specifically explain 
why his awards did not demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of the field. 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that in the final merits determination, USCTS officers 
should evaluate all the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has 
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953 (Assoc. Comm. 1994) (golfer of beneficiary's caliber will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States given the popularity of the sport). 
3 
States. 6 In denying the petition on this basis, the Director stated that "there is no evidence explaining 
how the Petitioner's work will be advantageous and of use to the interests of the United States on a 
national level." In his personal statement accompanying the petition, however, the Petitioner indicated 
that he plans to establish his own theatrical production company in the United States. He explained 
that his establishment of a theatrical production company will benefit our nation through his monetary 
investment, the creation of jobs for U.S. workers, the strengthening of the cultural vibrance of the 
United States, and the positive impact on the U.S. economy. The Director's decision did not 
specifically consider these proposed benefits or explain why they were insufficient to demonstrate that 
the Petitioner will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, as indicated above, the Director did not 
adequately explain the grounds for denial of the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at 
least three criteria, the Director should evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The 
new decision should include a final merits analysis of the totality of the record, including the evidence 
submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
addition, the new decision should consider the Petitioner's specific statements explaining how his 
work will substantially benefit prospectively the United States, including the arguments made on 
appeal. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(A)(3). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23193901 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive swimmer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibi I ity, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate her eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet four criteria. The Director found that the Petitioner 
satisfied the regulatory requirements for two criteria, lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material in professional or major media at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied 
these criteria. 
The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy the regulatory requirements for membership in 
associations that require outstanding achievements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), or for leading or 
critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has satisfied both evidentiary criteria. After reviewing the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has demonstrated that she satisfies at least three of 
the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner claims she performed a leading or critical role with an organization of distinguished 
reputation through her roles as team captain and swimmer for the University 
women's swimming and diving team. The Director evaluated the evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's role with the women's swimming and diving team, finding that although the Petitioner 
had a leading role with the women's swimming and diving team as its team captain, she did not 
have a leading or critical role with the overall organization of The Director explained that the 
2 
criterion requires a leading or critical role for an "entire organization, as opposed to a department, 
component, time frame or season within the organization." The Director's analysis is incorrect, as 
USCIS policy states that the leading or critical role may be "for an organization, establishment, or a 
division or department of an organization or establishment." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(2) (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Therefore, consideration may be given 
to the Petitioner's leading or critical role within a division or department of including her team 
captain role within women's swimming and diving team. Therefore, the Director's finding is 
withdrawn. 
The record indicates that during the Petitioner's senior year at she served as co-captain for the 
Owomen's swimming and diving team. For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
individual is (or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is (or was), in fact, leading. Id. Evidence shows as a team captain, the Petitioner provided mentoring 
and support to her teammates, and led the team to winning thel ITeam Championships. 
A letter from the team's associate head coach,I I states that the Petitioner "served as a co­
captain of the team, as voted to the position, by her fellow teammates" showing "outstanding 
leadership, accountability, positivity, and dedication toward her teammates. Her contributions as a 
team leader, as well as exemplary student-athlete, were extremely valuable to our Swimmin and 
Diving program's culture and success." Another letter from the team's head coach, 
confirms the Petitioner's captain role and details her accomplishments, including multiple 
swimming records. The record shows that during her time as team captain, the Petitioner was named I !swimmer of the year and was one of a limited number of swimmers who qualified 
for and competed at the NCAA championships where she set aDschool record. She also helped 
her team to a conference title at the I I championships by setting a meet record and 
winning a gold medal in the 100 meter freestyle event; winning gold medals in the 50 meter freestyle 
and 100 meter backstroke events; and being part of three gold medaling relay team events. The record 
demonstrates the Petitioner perf01med a leading role for the women's swimming and diving team 
as its team captain. 
The record also shows the0women's swimming and diving team has a distinguished reputation. 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. (citing to the definition of Distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com). News articles and statistics in the record 
detail the team's accomplishments during the Petitioner's time on the team, and the team's rankings 
from 2017 to 2020. Ranking statistics froml lcom indicate for the year 2020, the team was 
ranked in its conference; I I in NCAA Division I mid-major, and in NCAA Division I. 
News articles show multiple wins and accomplishments of the team and its individual team members, 
including the team having won seven consecutive ____ Championships. The recognized 
accomplishments of the team sufficiently demonstrate the team's distinguished reputation under the 
criterion. 
Based on this evidence, we find that the Petitioner has met the requirements of this criterion. 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Beneficiary satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As the Beneficiary has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three 
3 
criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory 
provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (viii), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the 
totality of the evidence evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l){A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 15, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor of neurological surgery, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner had satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
he had not demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim and shown that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he has sustained 
the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofV-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that 
the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to his or her occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was working as an assistant professor in the department of 
neurological surgery at The As the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to meet the initial evidentiary requirements. 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the judging, original contributions, and scholarly articles 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi), respectively. As the record supports those 
findings, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , we will 
analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. We 
evaluate whether he has demonstrated , by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , making him one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
2 
.
Matter ofV-K-
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, the Petitioner has shown his eligibility for this 
classification. 
The Petitioner received a Master of Science at of Public Health (2005) and a Bachelor 
of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery at (2003). His resume 
reflects he worked as a fellow in stereotactic and functional neurosurgery (2013-2015) and has worked 
as an assistant professor in the department of neurological surgery at The ______ smce 
2016. 
With respect to his scholarly articles, the Petitioner has provided evidence of his authorship of a 
considerable amount of published material, including numerous articles that appeared in distinguished 
professional journals, as well as a book chapter. As authoring scholarly articles is inherent to scientists 
and researchers, the citation history and other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles is 
an important indicator of the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether 
such influence has been sustained. In this case, the Petitioner has offered reports from Google Scholar 
and Microsoft Academic Research reflecting hundreds of citations to his published work to present, 
as well as evidence documenting that the rate at which his articles have been cited is very high for his 
field. The number of research articles he has coauthored and their unusually high rate of citation are 
commensurate with being among the small percentage at the very top of the field and demonstrate that 
his publication record sets him apart through a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. 
No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Importantly, the influence of the Petitioner's research is further evidenced through recommendation 
letters that identify his original contributions in the development of neurosurgery methods, and explain 
how those advancements have significantly impacted his field. Several letters, from both colleagues 
and independent experts, discuss the Petitioner's research advancements in the area of deep brain 
stimulation surgery, including his work relating to electrode placement and the use of anesthetics in 
such surgeries. For example, at The 
describes the Petitioner's findings on improving the accuracy of targeted electrode placement as 
"nothing short of a breakthrough in [Deep Brain Stimulation] surgery," and discusses outside interest 
and communications the Petitioner has received regarding the use of his tractography-based method 
for ultrasound surgery. Similarly, of 
School, attests that the Petitioner's findings on tractography-based targeting 
"have helped to create a new paradigm in the field of neurosurgery," and states that his "research has 
garnered a substantial amount of attention throughout the wider scientific community." 
also describes specific examples of how the Petitioner's methods and findings in this research have 
been used by several research teams at various institutions. 
In addition, a professor and chair of the neurological surgery department at the 
contends that the Petitioner has provided "invaluable 
information regarding the anesthetics used during [deep brain stimulation] surgery" and identified how 
"dexmedetomidine changes the bursting pattern of neurons, increasing the risk that the electrode is 
placed improperly , leading to dire consequences for the patient." Likewise , a 
professor at _______ states that the Petitioner 's research "greatly advanced the quest for 
3 
.
Matter ofV-K-
an ideal anesthetic agent" in deep brain stimulation surgery, and attests to the important clinical 
applications of his findings. 
Beyond the Petitioner's past contributions, we note that the record reflects significant interest relating 
to his current research investigating and improving the use of 
as a non-surgical alternative treatment for disorders such as Parkinson's disease and 
epilepsy. In addition to letters discussing the significance of this work, the record includes media 
coverage of the clinical trials that the Petitioner is leading. This attention regarding the Petitioner's 
ongoing work further contributes to a finding that he has sustained acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
With regard to his participation as a judge of others' work, the record indicates that the Petitioner has 
reviewed over 50 manuscripts for a large number of renowned professional publications, served as a 
member of the editorial board for and reviewed grant proposals 
for the We find the Petitioner's extensive judging experience, 
together with the achievements described above, to be consistent with a determination that he is among 
the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the record includes ample documentary evidence supporting the aforementioned independent 
references' statements regarding the Petitioner's standing in the field and the significance and 
originality of his work. In addition to the extensive number of citations to his articles, he provides 
documentation showing that his work has received significant attention and is being utilized by other 
research organizations. In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability. The 
totality of the evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding 
that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has documented 
sustained acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise. He therefore qualifies for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner 
bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 
U.S.C. § l36l;Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&NDec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden 
has been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained . 
Cite as Matter ofV-K-, ID# 02070834 (AAO Apr. 15, 2019) 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15738101 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sports journalist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for several television stations inl I includin~ [ I I and I I She hosted the weekly programl , J reported on international sporting 
events, and wrote online articles for I IH:er Y ouTube channel features videos of sports tourism (in 
which she visits various international locales and participates in local sports activities). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iii) and (ix). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four other criteria, numbered (v), (vii), (viii), and (x). The 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion numbered (vi), and 
therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
numbered (iii) and (ix). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner asserts that various accomplishments meet this criterion. An official ofl I 
calls the Petitioner "one of the first women inl ~o break through the glass ceiling that exists in sports 
reporting in the country." Setting aside the lack of documentary support for this assertion, her employer's 
decision to hire her is not an original contribution that the Petitioner made. (We note that promotional 
materials in the record show that, when the Petitioner joined.__ ______ _.two of the three existing 
co-hosts were female.) 
The Petitioner asserts that she was the first female journalist hired byl I i~ I but an 
executive with that company indicates that the network hired the Petitioner "when [the network] 
launched." The Petitioner has not established that being part of a new network's initial hiring wave is an 
original contribution, nor has the Petitioner explained how it is of major significance. Media coverage of 
the hiring, documented in the record, did not highlight the Petitioner's gender as a significant part of the 
story. 
Letters from employers and others contain general praise for the Petitioner, but do not identify specific 
original contributions or explain their significance. For instance, the sports and news manager at I I states that the Petitioner "is truly a star of I I in I I as she not only has 
incredible journalistic skills, which allow her to write complex journalistic pieces, but also the charisma 
and on-camera personality that attracts the public and keeps audiences engaged." General assessments 
of the Petitioner's skill and appeal to audiences do not satisfy the requirements spelled out in the 
regulations. 
The Petitioner's creation of a television documentary,! constitutes an original 
contribution, but the burden is on the Petitioner to establish its ma/or significance. The Petitioner asserts 
thatl ~s "the first documentary I in the history of1 I television." 
This statement attests to the film's originality, but does not establish its major significance. AD 
executive calls the documentary "very successful," but does not elaborate. The record does not establish 
the documentary's performance relative to similar programming. 
The Petitioner has documented an active and high-level career in sports journalism, but has not established 
the major significance of her original contributions. 
Evidence o_f the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
As evidence of qualifying display, the Petitioner submits screen captures from her television appearances; 
an appearance on a talk show; and dancing in a competitive television program. Talk show appearances 
and competitive dancing do not amount to work in the Petitioner's field. 
3 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's television appearances as a reporter did not constitute display 
in artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner observes that the words "display" and "art" 
have broad meanings, and the Petitioner asserts that television is an "artistic medium" and that 
'journalism ... [is] usually included within the Liberal Arts curriculum." It does not follow, however, 
that the phrase "artistic exhibitions or showcases" applies broadly to disciplines outside the fine arts, or 
reasonably applies to every usage of the term "art." Television programming can be artistic in nature, but 
not every television broadcast is an artistic exhibition or showcase. For example, a news broadcast may 
include footage from a security camera, which was not captured with any artistic intent. 
The purpose of sports journalism is not to provide an "artistic exhibition or showcase" to "display" the 
work of reporters, but rather to inform viewers about sports-related matters. The role of a sports journalist 
is to serve as a conduit to provide that information, even if some reporters have distinctive traits such as 
an animated style of delivery, or clever turns of phrase. 
The Petitioner has not established that her career involves display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion because she was the anchor fo~ I 
a weekly srorts Pf ogram od I The Petitioner states that this program was "the leading sports 
show" on s "second largest network." The record corroborates I ts distilguished I 
reputation as a major television network. The network's sports and news manager calls I I "one of the most important! I television sports shows." Letters written specifically 
to support the petition refer to the Petitioner as the anchor or central figure of the show, but media 
coverage of the Petitioner's hiring does not share this characterization, indicating instead that she 
joined a team of three other reporters who were already working on the show. 
~---~Is production director asserts that the Petitioner's role "was key to the huge success of the 
show and our impressive ratings," but the Petitioner does not provide sufficient data to show that the 
show's ratings improved after she joined the show ( or declined after she left). Without such data, the 
record does not objectively support the claim that the Petitioner was responsible for the show's ratings 
performance. 
An official ofl I states that the Petitioner "writes a weekly column covering sports 
tourism" forl I This official praises the Petitioner's "excellent reporting" and "unique, 
uplifting wa of communicatin with the audience," but does not explain how her role as a columnist 
is critical to as an organization. The record does not show how many writers work 
for .__ __ .ut promotional materials identify more than 20 bloggers (not including the Petitioner). 
The materials do not specify the distinction, if any, between columnists and bloggers. The record 
establishes the distinguished reputation o±1 I but it does not show that the Petitioner 
performed in a critical role for the organization. 
As shown above, the record establishes the Petitioner's involvement in high-profile sports journalism, 
but does not show that her role was critical for the publishers or broadcasters that employed her. 
4 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner asserts that the wording of the regulatory criterion is becoming "obsolete in our current 
digital world," and that television ratings should be considered. A petitioner may submit comparable 
evidence when the standard regulatory criteria do not readily apply to an individual's occupation. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4). Here, the Petitioner does not specifically invoke the "comparable evidence" 
provision. The regulations, in their published form, are binding in this proceeding; the Petitioner has no 
right or privilege to declare those regulations "obsolete" and substitute a new standard more favorable to 
her interests. 
Ratings are a relevant consideration when dealing with television personalities, and received some degree 
of discussion above, but further analysis of ratings would be more appropriate in the context of a final 
merits determination once a given individual has met the initial evidentiary threshold at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Here, the Petitioner has not cleared that threshold, and therefore a more detailed discussion 
of television ratings would not affect the outcome of the proceeding. 
The Petitioner has not met the regulatory requirements under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). By the same reasoning, employment with a major television network is not 
presumptive evidence of eligibility. Here, the Petitioner has established past employment with 
prominent networks, but has not provided a sufficient basis for comparison to show that she is among 
the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(~ 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). We note that the record indicates that the Petitioner leftl....,....__J 
I I in 2018, and does not indicate that she has maintained a high profile since that time, as 
required to demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13011369 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a beauty products company, seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability in the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
demonstrated that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements for the requested 
classification, it did not establish that she had sustained national or international acclaim and was one 
of the small percentage of business executives at the top of the field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Beneficiary served as thel I President for the Petitioner's! I 
brand of cosmetics. She was previously employed by thel !organization an~._ _____ _.I 
and has held managerial and executive positions with these companies for 20 years. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that she satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met the 
requisite three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her leading role 
for organizations with a distinguished reputation, published material about her and her work in 
professional, major trade or other major media, and a high salary relative to others in her field. Upon 
review of the evidence, we agree with the Director's decision regarding the first two of these criteria, 
but withdraw his conclusion concerning the Beneficiary's salary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets two additional evidentiary criteria 
relating to her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards in her field, and 
original contributions of major significance to the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that she does not meet the initial evidence requirement for this classification, and does 
not qualify as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that the individual has received a 
prize or award, that the prize or award was granted based upon excellence in the individual's field of 
endeavor, and that the prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized within the field. Here, 
the Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary led efforts to launch and market, and in some 
2 
cases develop, cosmetics products which were later selected for awards based upon their rerformance. 
These awards include the Allure magazine I t and I awards and 
Cosmetics Magazine 1 I Awards," which were received by products issued by the 
Petitioner and by the Beneficiary's previous employer,! I In addition, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence that its l I advertising campaign was a finalist in the 11th Annual I I Awards" 
in the I I category. 
However, as noted by the Director, the Beneficiary is not named as a recipient and did not personally 
receive any of these awards, as is required by the plain language of this criterion. The focus in this 
criterion is on the individual's receipt of awards or prizes, as opposed to his or hers employer's receipt 
of award or prizes. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the awards "do not bear [the Beneficiary's] 
name," but focuses instead upon her contribution to these products' recognition. Letters from the 
Beneficiary's direct superiors in both organizations state that due to her leadership in the areas of 
marketing ( and in some cases product development), the recognition afforded to the products through 
these awards can be attributed to her. But it is the awarding organizations which determine upon 
whom or what recognition is bestowed, and in this case they chose to name the products and the 
companies which sell them. In addition, the evidence indicates that the awards issued by the 
magazines were based upon an appraisal of the relative performance of the cosmetics and related 
products, not upon the business acumen of those who developed and marketed them. They are not, 
therefore, awards for excellence in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor. 
Further, even ifwe were to accept the Petitioner's assertion that the evidence of the Beneficiary's work 
related to the recognized products is sufficient under this criterion, which we do not, we note that at 
least some of the recognition asserted to be attributable to her did not come in the form of prizes or 
awards as re uired. Exam les of this include the a earance ofl I sold b~ I in a Vogue 
article titled ~------------~------ as well as the previously mentioned 
marketing campaign which was a finalist for a ~----~" This evidence does not demonstrate 
that either the Beneficiary or her employer were the recipient of a prize or award. 
Based upon the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
is the recipient of prizes or awards for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to successfully demonstrate that an individual meets this criterion, a petitioner must establish 
that he or she has made contributions to the field that are both original and of major significance. 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the individual's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. Page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Beneficiary's accomplishments "have had a major impact on 
product development and marketing in the global beauty industry," and refers to her leadership of 
projects to develop and launch beauty products which were recognized by the industry awards 
mentioned above. It begins by highlighting her leadership of the development o~ I I I and I I as examples of contributions to the field ' ess, 
noting that these products represente~ "grouldbreaking innovations" such as a,....m_a.......,_n_e_t_ic_._ __ ....____, 
"that has since been copied by othe companies." Also mentioned i ________ ___,. 
which the Petitioner states is "one of the best-selling franchises in the world." 
In support of these assertions, the Petitioner refers to reference letters from executives at I.__ __ _. I I Executive Vice President of Human Relations at the company, confirms the 
Beneficiary's employment in progressively more senior managerial and executive positions from 1999 
to 2016, and notes that during this time she "defined and implemented marketing, media, and 
promotional strategies" and "was involved in the creation and launched numerous highly successful 
and groundbreaking products." He confirms that these included the three products mentioned above 
as well as others, and goes into greater detail regarding the first two. I I describes I I I I as "game-changing," having "innovative features," and "one of the leading products in its 
category to this day," and notes that I I came in "a novr-11 1 J package with a 
magnetic opening system, which was the first of its kind in the market." Although this letter confirms 
that the Beneficiary led the development of products which are said to have novel features, at least 
one of which remains a sales success for her former employer, it does not explain how the 
Beneficiary's work in these examples was of such wide impact or influence on her field that they were 
of majorl significjnce. For example, while the Petitioner asserts on appeal that other companies 
followed in offering magnetic I I cases,I I does not make this claim in his 
letter, nor does the record include documentary evidence to support this claim or demonstrate how it 
was of major significance to the field. In addition, while the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding 
an Allure I I' award received for the~----.......,...--,-____,, the webpage in the record 
which announces the award and describes this product makes no mention of its magnetic case. 
Similarly, the Petitioner names products for which the Beneficiary has led the development and 
marketing under its employment, also including! I products. I I the 
Petitioner's Chief Marketing Officer and also former colleague of the Beneficiary's atl I 
confirms that "several new products" have been introduced during her tenure as Global Brand 
President, some of which "were recognized by the industry for their innovation," including the Allure 
.__ _____ ____. recognition in 2019. However, as noted above, the evidence of these awards 
indicates that they were granted based upon home testing of the products' performance by the 
magazine's staff, not upon any judgment of innovation or excellence in product development. 
Although the evidence demonstrates that the Beneficiary has successfully led the development of 
products for her current and former employers, it does not show that her work has led other executives 
in the cosmetics industry or elsewhere to change the way they conduct their work, or has otherwise 
impacted the area of product development in her overall field. The commercial or critical success of 
the products may have led to improved sales for her employers, but the evidence shows that that impact 
was felt by those employers only, not the broader field. 
4 
Turning to the Beneficiary's contributions related to the marketing of cosmetics during her long career 
in the industry, the Petitioner first refers on appeal to the reference letter froml I a former 
colleague of the Beneficiary's atl I He describes product launch marketing campaigns for two 
I lproducts, both of which featured well-known actresses.I I then explains that the 
Beneficiary was responsible for relaunching thel f website for the United States, "which was 
so successful that it quickly became the standard reference for all I I business units worldwide." 
He states that she "established standards, methods, and processes that at still in use atl I today." 
We note that this same paragraph regarding the Beneficiary's work on thel !website appears 
inl l's letter as well However, neither lett~tes that these processes or methods 
have been applied outside of the! Jbrand, or thel___J organization, to have an impact on 
the broader field. 
I l's letter touches on other aspects of the Beneficiary's marketing efforts while arj [ 
stating that "she was responsible for redefininr the brand equity forl I in the United States," 
and that her strategy "became the platform for_ I globally." It is unclear if he is referring to 
the website relaunching as referenced in the other two letters, as he does not expand upon what was 
involved in redefining! Is "brand equity," butl I later notes that the Beneficiary 
"accelerated the company's digital presence, achieving double-digit growth in e-commerce ... " As 
with the previously mentioned letters, there is no indication in this letter that her work in leading 
marketing campaigns forl ~ignificantly impacted the field beyond her employer. 
The Petitioner also asserts that media articles featuring quotes from the Beneficiary, as well as an 
interview of her which appeared on the website of Women's Wear Daily (WWD) confirm her 
"preeminence" and "elite status." Some of these articles were published during her time with 
I, such as a 2013 article in the New York Times which includes a statement from her regarding 
~th_e_c_o_m~pany's effort in targetin9 the I I market. Another article appearing in the same 
newspaper a year earlier is about a[ lcommercial featuring thel I 
and includes a short quote from the Beneficiary. While these articles confirm her position as a 
marketing executive fo~ land its I I brand, and thus an expert in cosmetics marketing 
who is authorized to speak on the brand's behalf: they do not focus on any contributions made by the 
Beneficiary to the cosmetics industry or the field of business. 
Other articles werel publisled since the Beneficiary began working for the Petitioner. The WWD 
interview discusses 's I ~ campaign, noting it as a departure for the company, and 
allows the Beneficiary to discuss her efforts to reverse the company's sales struggles and compete 
with "indie" brands. This article also serves to confirm the Beneficiary's role as an executive and 
provides more detail about certain marketing projects she has undertaken. Another article, posted on 
the website~--------~ is about brands conducting marketing campaigns at live events, 
and dedicates several paragraphs to the Beneficiary's description of the Petitioner's efforts in this vein. 
Although both of these articles indicate that she led the Petitioner in marketing campaigns that were 
novel for the company and brand, they do not indicate that these campaigns represented contributions 
to the overall field which influenced other companies to take a similar approach. 
Another way in which the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary has made a contribution of jajorl 
significance to the field of business relates to her work in internal processes for the company. I !writes that she was able to reduce development time for new products from 18 to 24 months 
5 
down to 6 to 18 months. The Beneficiary also discusses this change in the WWD article, noting that 
accelerating this timeline is a way in which the Petitioner is changing its business model to compete 
with newer cosmetics companies. As with the discussions above, this evidence does not show that the 
changes made to the Petitioner's internal processes are contributions which have influenced others in 
the industry or broader field of business to implement within their organizations. 
Upon consideration of all of the evidence pertaining to this criterion, some of which has been 
specifically mentioned in the analysis above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in her field. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salmy or other significantZv high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of its claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted a letter regarding the Beneficiary's 
promotion in 2018, her IRS Forms W-2 for the years 2018 and 2019, earnings statements for 2019, 
and information about the salaries of Chief Executive Officers and Chief Sustainability Officers in I I during the relevant period. The letter states that as President ofl I the 
Beneficiary earns $600,000 in salary, a 100% bonus, and an award under the company's Long Term 
Incentive Plan ofup to $1,000,000. The Forms W-2 for 2018 and 2019 show that in those years, she 
earned "wages, tips and other compensation" of $865,602 and $1,099, 303, respectively. Also, the 
earnings statement for January 31, 2020 shows that at that point her base salary was $662,000, and 
that other compensation included a car allowance, life insurance and financial consulting. 
For purposes of comparison, the salary data from the United States Department of Labor's Online 
Wage Library (OWL) does not provide values for wage levels 1 through 4, but states that such 
information is not provided "due to limitations in the OES data." It further notes that the wage data 
may be at least $208,000 per year, but does provide a "Mean Wage (H-2B)" of $256,776 per year. 
Although we acknowledge that the Beneficiary's base salary of $600,000 in 2018, and $662,000 in 
2020, exceeds the mean salary reported, the information provided in the OWL is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that her salary is high in comparison to the salary of other executives i~ I or 
that her total remuneration is significantly high in comparison to those executives. 
First, since the OWL does not take indicate that compensation other than base salary is included in the 
figures provided, we can only consider the Beneficiary's base salary as shown in the promotion letter 
and earnings statements when making this comparison. Second, the mean wage by itself does not 
provide a sufficient basis to determine whether the Beneficiary's salary is high, as it does not provide 
a complete picture of the range of executive salaries which are above average, high, and near the top 
echelon. Therefore, the record does not include evidence that demonstrates that the Beneficiary's 
salary is high in comparison to other executive, and we withdraw the Director's conclusion that she 
meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Classification 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
6 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgome,y, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary has the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13 1415 05 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a molecular and cellular biologist and a postdoctoral fellow at the University of 
.__ ________ _, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinazy 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal after reaching the same 
conclusion. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrectapplicationoflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentaty 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss the 
appeal was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decision 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that she satisfied two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), includingjudging the work of others in her 
field at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
We also addressed the Petitioner's claims that she satisfied the criteria relating to published materials 
about her, original contributions of major significance, and leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v) and (viii), respectively, and determined that the evidence did not satisfy any of 
these criteria. 
Because we concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements, we did not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596, F.3d at 1119-20. 
Neve1iheless, we advised that after a review of the record in the aggregate, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that she has earned sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, as required by section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and 
be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5 ( a )(2). Here, the Petitioner 
does not raise new facts in her brief and the only new evidence she submits on motion is her updated 
Google Scholar profile dated July 2020, approximately 16 months after the filing of the petition. 
Although a motion to reopen allows the submissionofnew evidence related to eligibility, the Petitioner 
must still establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from 
the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, 1he 
updated Google Scholar profile does not present new facts that warrant the reopening of this matter 
and the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider focuses on our determination that she did not satisfy the original 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 1 She asserts that we failed to apply the 
preponderance of the evidence standard in our adjudication, misapplied and misconstrued case law, 
and failed to consider all of the relevant evidence submitted in support of the criterion. 
1. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
The Petitioner maintains that she has made several original contributions of major significance in her 
field as evidenced by her publication in top ranked journals, citations to her published work, 
testimonial letters from experts in her field, and her co-invention of a patented! I 
support system. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must 
establish that not only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major 
significance in the field.2 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughoutthe fie Id, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Before proceeding to a discussion of why we are granting this criterion in this motion, we will address 
the Petitioner's claim that we inappropriately disregarded or gave less weight to expert testimony in 
the record based on an observation that the expert opinion letters, "although not identically worded" 
contain similarities "consistent with common origin or at least significant coaching in the 
composition." We noted that "USCIS may give letters diminished weight when there is evidence of 
common origin," citingSurinderSingh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse 
credibility determination in asylum proceedings based in paii on the similarity of the affidavits). The 
Petitioner maintains that the Second Circuit's holding in Singh does not support giving "diminished 
1 Although herbriefonmotion primarily focusesonheroriginalcontributions, the Petitioner states that she is not conceding 
the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and requests that we review the previous arguments 
submitted on appeal. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published w01k may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficientto establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
weight" to uncontradicted expert testimony in an immigrant petition proceeding and was thus 
inappropriately cited. The Petitioner also emphasizes that there are valid reasons for such letters to 
have similarities in format, organization, and phrasing and that such similarities did not provide 
sufficient basis to doubt the credibility or probative value of the letters. 
Our discussion of the expert testimony in the appellate decision reflects that we did in fact give 
significant evidentiary weight to the submitted testimonial letters. For example, we began our analysis 
of the original contributions criterion with a discussion of the substantive content of this evidence and 
~orated quotations from the letters o_._.._ ________ l l I I 
L__J andl I We acknowledged that their letters were highly specific in describing the 
technical aspects of the Petitioner's original scientific research. However, we determined that the 
letters did not satisfy the Petitioner's burden to show the major significance of her contributions 
because they either did not elaborate with similar specificity on the impact or influence of herresearch 
in the field, or because, in the case of I ts letter, they focused on "pending research with the 
not-yet-fulfilled potential to have an impact on medical research and treatment." Accordingly, we 
concluded that "the letters do not adequately explain how the Petitioner's specific contributions are of 
major significance." We also stated: 
We do not question the competence of the various individuals to attest to technical 
details of the Petitioner's work. But it cannot suffice to describe that work and then 
assert that it is of major significance, either with no elaboration or with the contention 
that it will eventually lead to new treatments or methods that have yet to be discovered. 
Based on the foregoing, our analysis does not reflect that we gave "diminished weight" to the expert 
testimony and our conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion did not hinge on a 
determination that the letters had a "common origin." That discussion, and the supporting citation to 
Singh, were intended to address the Petitioner's claim that the Director's initial decision had 
misapplied Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791 (Comm'r 1988), by seemingly disregarding the 
Petitioner's expert opinion letters, and had "cited no basis for giving the letters diminished weight." 
After consideration of the Petitioner's explanation on motion and fmiher review of the expert 
testimonial letters, we agree with the Petitioner that any perceived similarities in those letters did not 
warrant a determination that the letters had a '·common origin" or the reference to Singh. Further, we 
affirm that we do not have reason to doubt the credibility of the individuals who provided letters in 
support of this petition. 
The Petitioner also argues that we erred in our evaluation of the original contributions criterion by 
overlooking or failing to address evidence that corroborates the expert opinion testimony, emphasizing 
that she submitted more than sufficient documentation to meet the re onderance of the evidence 
standard. She s ecificall hi li ts her article ~------.-------~-------' published in Molecular Cell in 2012 and her 
development of a~-----~ support system (which resulted in a publication in Biotechnology 
and Bioengineering and a Chinese patent) as her "two most important works." 
With respect to the Chinese patent for a 1 f support system and combined type liquid 
storage tank," we determined that the issuance of a patent attests to the invention's originality but not 
4 
to its significance. We observed that the record did not contain evidence that the patented invention 
is "in use or in commercial production" and concluded that there was "no documentary evidence to 
establish that her role in the invention constitutes a contribution of major significance." On appeaL 
the Petitioner emphasizes that she submitted a letter from an executive of a Chinese company which 
acknowledges thr the 1atent "was being used and saving lives, and that company was gearing up for 
production ofhe upport systems to be sold on the market." 
The record reflects that, in res onse to a re uest for evidence RFE , the Petitioner submitted an 
undated letter, attributed toL_ __ .r-----, _________ _J, certifying that, in 2011, this 
company purchased the patent fro~~,._ __ ____,University. According to the letter, "[t]he patent is now 
being optimized for production and commercially developed for clinical applications." The letter 
further states that the patented technology, "improves the substance exchange efficiency and the 
treatment effect of~ I support system," "is imperative in advancing new treatments 
for patients," and is "financially significant"to the company. We disagree thatthis briefletterprovides 
sufficient information to document that the patented technology was already being used to treat 
patients. Rather, it indicates that the invention is still being "developed for clinical applications." The 
letter is undated and is not accompanied by evidence that the patented invention was in use at the time 
of filing. 
We acknowledge thatj lo~ !university describes the Petitioner's research 
related to the patent in his letter. He states that it was published in Biotechnology and Bioengineering, 
"one of the top journals in the bioengineering field" and had been cited 3 8 times. However, he does 
not further discuss the impact or the influence of the published research, mention the patent assijed 
tol !University or the purchase of that patent byl O _ or 
otherwise provide support for the Petitioner's claim that the patented technology is "being used and 
saving lives." 
While the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion based on her patent, we 
conclude, based on her arguments on motion, that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish that 
she meets this criterion based on the research she published in Molecular Cell in 2012. The Petitioner 
maintains that we did not consider all testimonial evidence that discusses this work and her 
contributions to the study, evidence demonstrating that this is the Petitioner's most cited work, and 
evidence that other researchers have relied on and built upon this research. Further, the record contains 
evidence that the Petitioner's discovery and resulting Molecular Cell aiiicle were reported by U.S. 
science news publications including Science Signaling and Science Daily, as well as in Chinese media 
outlets. When considered collectively, the Petitioner has provided sufficient detail to establish, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the nature and significance of her contribution to this research. 
Because the Petitioner has now demonstrated that she satisfies three of the initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final 
merits determination below. 
2. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
5 
I that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor , and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established 
her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received her bachelor's degree atc=J University of Science 
and Technology, her master's degree in biochejistry anl molecular biology froml I University 
and her doctorate degree in internal medicine at University in 2014. She provided evidence 
that she received several academic honors and scholarships from these institutions , as well as a national 
scholarship for graduate students awarded by China's Ministry of Education. The Petitioner 
completed her first postdoctoral fellowship at the Cancer Biology Department of City of Hope I ! in Califomi~een 2014 and 2017. As of the date of filing, she had been, 
employed as a postdoctoral fellow aL._J since 2018 in the Department of Molecular Biology and 
Chemisj, where her research was focused onl I 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has provided evidence that she has judged the work of others 
through the peerreview process, authored scholarly articles, and made original scientific contributions 
in her field. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinmy 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 5 96 F. 3d at 1121-22. 4 Participation in 
the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has the sustained 
national or international acclaim required for this classification . The record reflects that, as of the date 
of filing, the Petitioner had completed 13 manuscript reviews for Biomedicine and Pharmacotherapy, 
as well as 8 reviews for Cancer Letters, and 7 reviews for Nutrients, with the earliest review completed 
in April 2018. The Petitioner also submitted a "Peer Review Summary" prepared by Publons 
(publons.com) stating that her 28 reviews placed her "in the 91 st percentile for verified review 
contributions on Publons up until February 2019."5 
However, the "Peer Review Summary" from Publons.com does not provide enough infonnation to 
substantiate the Petitioner's claim that her number of completed manuscript reviews places her among 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.l ,supra, at 4 (statingthatUSCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expeitise for the immigrant classification) . 
4 See also Id. at 13 (stating that an individual's participation as a judge should be evaluated to determine whether it was 
indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying 
sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided an updated summary from Pub Ions indicating that she had 
performed! I July 2019, "placing in the 94th percentile for verified review 
contributions on Publons." 
6 
the small percentage at the very top of her field; it does not indicate how Publons derives its rankings, 
whether its statistics are based on self-reported information rather than derived from an impartial 
source, and how its statistics relate to the field as a whole. For these reasons, the reports from Publons 
do not demonstrate how the Petitioner's participation in the peer review process sets her apart from 
others in her field. 
Based the evidence submitted , we can conclude that three scientific journals have frequently invited 
her to review articles in the 18 months preceding the filing of the petition and continue to do so. The 
record does not reflect, however, that this recent experience reflects a consistent history of 
participating as a peer reviewer that would contribute to a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
Further, the evidence does not document , for example, the selection criteria used by the journals to 
identify potential peer reviewers or otherwise reflect that invitations to review manuscripts for 
Biomedicine and Pharmacotherapy, Cancer Letters, or Nutrients are only issued to top researchers 
who have achieved national or international acclaim. The record contains little information regarding 
these journals, such as their relative ranking among journals in the Petitioner's field. Overall, while 
we acknowledge the significant volume of recent requests the Petitioner has received to review 
manuscripts for three journals, the evidence does not establish that the scope of these peer review 
activities requires or reflects acclaim in the field, that it has resulted in her sustained acclaim, or that 
the nature of the peer review work she has performed to date is indicative of her placement among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . 
Likewise, publication of scientific research alone does not place a researcher at the very top of the 
field. At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided her Google Scholar profile reflecting that she had 
published 20 articles in professional journals and conference proceedings between 2009 and 2019, 15 
of which had been cited by others. In support of her claim that her publication record is indicative of 
her placement at the top of the field, the Petitioner places particular emphasis on the ranking or impact 
factor of certain journals that published her work, her cumulative number of citations, and the number 
of citations garnered by some of her individual publications. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner has published articles in Nature and Cell publications, including 
Nature Cell Biology, Nature Communications, Molecular Cell and Cell Reports, as well as in other 
highly ranked publications. 6 Publication in a highly ranked journal in-and-of-itself, however, does not 
indicate a petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim. A given publication's high ranking 
or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, show the 
influence of any particular author or demonstrate how an individual's research has had an impact 
within the field. Several of the researchers who provided letters in support of the petition reference 
the Petitioner's publications in Nature Cell Biology, Molecular Cell and Nature Communications, 
comment on the journals' reputations, and indicate that they have also published their own work in 
these publications. For exampleJ I principal scientist atl I 
observes that Nature Cell Biology "only publishes important, original, and outstanding studies in cell 
6 The Petitioner submitted journal rankings published by Scimago Institutions Rankings (scimagojr.com) showing that 
Nature Cell Biology andMolecular Cell ranked 3rd and 4th among"CellBiology" joumals,Mol ecular Cell is ranked 4th 
among"MolecularCell" journals, and Cell Reports,Nature Communications andPloS Biology are ranked 8th, 11th and 
l 5th,respectively, amongjournals classified as "Biochemistry , Genetics and Molecular Biology (miscellaneous)." 
7 
biology," but her observation does not equate to a statement that the journal only publishes the work 
of nationally acclaimed researchers or that every article published in the journal gamers its authors 
national or international recognition in the field. 
While publishing articles in prestigious publications is noteworthy, evidence of journal rankings must 
be considered along with other relevant information regarding the Petitioner's publication and citation 
record; the reputation of a journal that published her work is not sufficient to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. For the additional reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner has not shown that her overall publication record demonstrates the 
required sustained national or international acclaim for this classification. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of such articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
of her work, the recognition that her work has received, and whether such influence and recognition 
have been sustained. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant 
to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided evidence that her w01k 
had been cited by others 419 times, with her most cited articles receiving 116, 56, and 43 citations, 
respectively. 7 
Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner has argued that citation counts are "a poor measure [ of] 
significance in any given scientific field" and "bear little relevance to sustained acclaim."8 
Nevertheless, she has submitted evidence intended to provide additional context for her citation figures 
and to establish their significance. At the time of filing, she provided a chart from Thomson-Reuters' 
In Cites Essential Science Indicators, highlighting what appear to be average citation rates for articles 
published between 2007 and 2017 in the research field of "Molecular Biology & Genetics." The 
Petitioner stated that, based on the figures provided in the chart, a similarly published researcher in 
this field "might be expected to receive approximately 185 citations in the same timeframe" while she 
received over 400, or 2.25 times the average. The Petitioner reasoned that "the amount of citations 
that these works have received compared to the average demonstrates that [she] and her work have 
received sustained acclaim in her field." 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a different, more recent InCites Essential 
Citation Indicators "baselines-percentiles" chart, with the field "Biology & Biochemistry" highlighted. 
She compared her cumulative citations for articles published between 2009 and 2019 with the 50th 
percentile citation figures provided on the chart and emphasized thather466 cumulative citations were 
3.24 times higher than the median baseline figure. We discussed this evidence in our previous 
decision, noting that, when comparing the two charts, the "Biology & Biochemistry" research field 
7 These citation figures are for the Petitioner's 2012 Molecular Cell article, her20 I 6Nature Cell Biology article, and her 
2013 Biotechnology and Bioengineering article, as of March 2019. The updated Google Scholar profile she submits on 
motion, which includes additional articles published in 2019 and 2020, indicates 651 cumulative citations. The article in 
Molecular Cell remains hermostcited publication, with 128 citations as ofJuly 2020. 
8 The Petitioner acknowledged thatthere are researchers who have garnered thousands of citations for their work, but states 
that they "have generally been ab le to do so because they are frequently named as the 'corresponding author' for several 
publications," or "[i]n other words, these authors are credited for leading the lab in which the studies were perforrned­
not for executing the studies orpublishingthework." She did not, however,provide anycorroboratingevidence to support 
this argument or herposition that citations are irrelevantto her eligibility for this classification. 
8 
has substantially lower average citation rates than the "Molecular Biology & Genetics" field initially 
selected as an appropriate point of comparison. She did not exp lain why a different research field was 
selected at the time of the RFE response. 
We agree with the Petitioner that there is no threshold number of citations that must be met for an 
individual to demonstrate her extraordinary ability in the sciences. Nevertheless, we must review her 
publication and citation record in context and it is her burden to establish that she is more likely than 
not in that small percentage of researchers at the very top ofher field. As we noted above and discussed 
in our prior decision, the evidence she submits to show more specifically where her published work 
stands in relation to others is incomplete and inconsistent, and the Petitioner's motion does not address 
this deficiency. 
We acknowledge thatl I who runs the~ laboratory where the Petitioner works, 
comments on the Petitioner's cumulative citations. She states that '"compared to traditionall I 
research,~-----~ is a relatively new field," and that '"it is not surprising that the citation 
number is lower compared to other traditional! I studies.'1 I observes that she has "seen 
young assistant professors and even associate professors in our field, who do not have the citations 
that [the Petitioner] has" and states that she considers the Petitioner's number of citations to be "vezy 
impressive." As of the date of filing, the Petitioner was working as a postdoctoral fellow, 
approximately five years removed from completion of her Ph.D. I ts observation she has more 
citations than some scientists in her specific field who are somewhat more advanced in their careers 
is not sufficient to support a finding that her overall body of research has been recognized at a level 
that places her in the small percentage at the top of that field. 
The information provided from InCites Essential Science Indicators shows that several of the 
Petitioner's individual published papers have higher-than-average citation rates in the "Molecular 
Biology & Genetics" field, and citation rates that would place them among the top 10% of papers 
published in the "Biology and Biochemistry" research field in the same year. The Petitioner's 2012 
Molecular Cell article meets the top 10% threshold according to this metric, but there is a significant 
gap between articles that meet this threshold ( 49 citations) and the most cited papers in the field (3,091 
citations at the top 0.01 %, 569 at the top 0.1 %). 
We also recognize that the Petitioner has continued to publish her work and that her number of 
citations increased considerably after the date of filing. For example, her 2016 Nature Cell Biology 
article, which had 56 citations at the time of filing, had 121 citations according to the Google Scholar 
profile submitted in support of the motion. Continued citation of the Petitioner's work after the filing 
date speaks to the significance of that work, which we have granted, above; but it cannot retroactively 
establish eligibility at the time of filing. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the 
time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
While the Petitioner's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed her 
work, she did not establish that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in 
her field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim orrepresent attention at a level 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 
Most of the Petitioner's arguments on motion focus on her original research contributions. The issue 
before us in the final merits determination is whether the Petitioner has received recognition for those 
contributions that establishes her sustained national or international acclaim and that has elevated her 
to the very top of her field. The Petitioner has shown that the work she has perfom1ed during her 
graduate studies and ostdoctoral f ellowshi sis im ortant research that has contributed to scientific 
understanding of 'ses and which may lead to roved 
diagnostic capabilities and therapeutic strategies for ~-~and other diseases. letter 
establishes that the Petitioner is a valuable contributor to her laboratory at w.-'h""i""le::......--,---' I lofl I University, comments on the 1,boratorv's reputation, noting that~--~-
is a leading expert i~ !studies." I~. ___ ___,braises the Petitioner's work a as 
"outstanding" and states that she is an "asset to the biomedical research community." However, this 
evidence does not lead to a detennination that the Petitioner enjoys sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
As discussed, the Petitioner has established that she is the co-inventor of a patented .... ! _____ ____, 
system that is being "optimized for production and commercially developed for clinical applications," 
but she has not demonstrated any individual recognition she received as one of 13 co-inventors of the 
patented invention. The Petitioner has also emphasized that GeneCards, described as "a searchable, 
integrative database that provides comprehensive, user-friendly information on all annotated and 
predicted human genes," lists her 2019 Nature Communications article under the entry for the 
I ] as the "primary source" of information about the gene. In response to the RFE, the 
Petitioner stated that "an entry like this will be read and used by every scientist in the world who 
investigates or works with this gene," and claimed that "[a] Genecard Entry such as this giving the 
author of the article that elucidated the function and effects of this gene is instant international 
notoriety." While a letter from l 0)who co-authored this article, discusses the Petitioner's 
important contributions to the project and the significance of the discovery, she does not mention the 
GeneCards entry as an indicator that the Petitioner received individual recognition for her discovery, 
much less "instant international" acclaim in the field. Further, it is unclear that the inclusion of the 
Petitioner's article on the GeneCards entry occurred prior to the filing of the petition, as it was 
submitted for the first time in response to the RFE. 
The evidence related to the Petitioner's other contributions demonstrates that her work has been relied 
on by other researchers who have cited to her publications, and has a number of potential applications, 
but does not demonstrate how her activities have garnered her national and international acclaim. For 
example, the Petitioner submitted evidence that the research findings of her 2012 Molecular Cell 
article were reported by science-related media outlets in the United States and China. As noted above, 
this evidence supports the significance of those findings. However, although the Petitioner contributed 
to the research and authored the paper, the media reports do not single her out or acknowledge her for 
her findings. 
The recommendation letters in the record summarize the Petitioner's research, speak to its originality 
and potential to impact further research and therapeutic treatments, and comment on its publication in 
prestigious journals. While some of the authors assert that they consider the Petitioner to be at the top 
of their shared research field, they do not elaborate on how she has garnered the necessary sustained 
national or international acclaim to elevate her to that level. For instance! I states that the 
Petitioner "is unquestionably one of the top research scientists in her field in the world." I I 
I !Professor and Principal Investigator a~ I university indicates thatthe Petitioner "has 
emerged as one of the outstanding scientists in the world in the rapidly developing area ot1 I I I research." Similarly J !of University o~ I indicates that the 
Petitioner "clearly is one of the top scientists in her field" and "has proven herself to be an 
extraordinary scientist." In addition, at least three of the letters point to the Petitioner's employment 
atOas evidence of her standing in the field, noting that the university "only takes the best scientists 
from around the world." 
While these letters contain claims regarding the Petitioner's standing in her field, the statute 
nevertheless demands "extensive documentation" of her recognition. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the 
Act. We emphasize that we find that the expert recommendation letters to be credible in their 
descriptions of the Petitioner's research, its significance and its potential, and the authors are sincere 
in their assessment of her abilities as a scientist. However, the letters are not supported by sufficient 
evidence that the Petitioner's publications, peer review activities, and research contributions to date 
have resulted in her being viewed by the overall field as among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not establish that she has 
received widespread recognition for her achievements and is recognized by the greater field as having 
a career of acclaimed work. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. As noted in our prior decision, the Petitioner is in the early stages 
of what promises to be a very successful career in the sciences, but she seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutmy 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of her field. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown proper grounds for reopening. We have 
reconsidered our previous determination that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and again we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated her eligibility for the classification sought. Accordingly, the motions will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14444775 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a songwriter, musician, and producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through either receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(I) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a songwriter, musician and producer for the and ecord 
labels, and is credited on songs by artists such as.__---.-____ ,...,._ ____ _,._ ____ ....,, and I, I, who performs under the pseudonym......,. ___ ~ He has also contributed to songs 
~ land others as a session guitarist. He states that he intends to continue working in 
the United States as a songwriter and producer. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to a high salary in relation to others in his field and 
commercial success in the performing arts. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and a leading or 
critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation. 2 After reviewing all of the evidence 
in the record, we agree that the Petitioner meets the two criteria granted by the Director, but find that 
he does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification of at least three criteria. 
1 The record shows that he has been working in the United States for several years prior to the filing of this petition pursuant 
to 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
2 Although the Petitioner initially claimed to also meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (v) relating to 
published material about him and contributions to the field of major significance, he does not contest the Director's 
decision relating to these criteria on appeal or otherwise refer to them in his appeal brief. We will therefore consider these 
issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record includes evidence of the Petitioner's receipt (along with two ~) of the Society of 
Comr;iosers, Authors, and Music Publishers (SOCAN) Songwriting Prize inL_J for his work on the 
song l I performed b~ I The evidence indicates that the award includes a $10,000 
cash prize, a keyboard, and a $500 gift card. In addition, the official rules for the prize state that the 
song must be original, and created by songwriters who are Canadian citizens, landed immigrants or 
legal residents, and who have not been nominated for a Grammy award or are a previous winner of 
the SOCAN Songwriting Prize. 
The Director noted in his decision that the prize is described as honoring "emerging Canadian 
songwriters," and therefore excludes those "who have already achieved excellence in the field ... ," 
rendering this evidence less than probative. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the plain language 
of this criterion does not preclude an award from meeting the requirements simply because it is granted 
to "emerging" artists, or because it is awarded based in part upon public voting. 
We agree with the Director that limitations on the scope of potential awardees may be taken into 
consideration when determining whether an award is granted for "excellence in the field of endeavor," 
since that phrase includes all of those engaged in the field of endeavor, not just the pool of nominees 
for a particular award. 3 Here, the exclusion of those who have been nominated for a Grammy award 
removes from the pool of potential awardees those who have already been judged to have 
demonstrated excellence in the field of songwriting. In addition, while the official rules state that the 
short list of ten finalists is nominated by an independent panel of experts "on the basis of artistic 
merit," the award itself is determined by public vote. Therefore, we also agree with the Director that 
the rules do not establish that the winner of the SOC AN Songwriting Prize is awarded for excellence 
in songwriting as opposed to popularity. 
Further, the evidence does not establish that the SOCAN Songwriting Prize is nationally or 
internationally recognized. The Petitioner initially submitted evidence that the press release from 
SOCAN about his receipt of the award was posted on the website businessinsider.com, as well as on 
the organization's own website. This evidence does not show recognition in the field beyond the 
awarding entity. Other media about the Petitioner's and his co-writers' receipt of this award included 
articles posted on the websites fyimusicnews.com and indie88.com. However, the information about 
these media outlets from their own websites is insufficient to show that these articles constitute 
national or international recognition in the music industry. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted additional evidence 
about the SOCAN Songwriting Prize, the organization, and previous winners of the award. We note 
that much of this evidence refers not to the songwriting prize, but to the "SOCAN Awards," which are 
granted at a highly publicized event and include awards in a large number of categories including 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14. Pg. 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that limitations on competitors is a relevant 
consideration when determining whether an award was granted on the basis of excellence in the field. 
3 
"Songwriters of the Year." That award was given to other songwriters itj I not the Petitioner and 
his collaborators. This evidence does not demonstrate that the SOCAN Songwriting Prize receives 
the same level of recognition, either from the general public or in the field. Accordingly, we agree 
with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they 
have performed in either a leading or critical role, and that that role has been for an organization or 
establishment having a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that he has played a leading or critical role for companies such as I I the I b, and I l dba I I I I as well as for individual artists who, he asserts, operated as "going business concerns" which 
qualify as organizations. In his response to the Director's RFE, for example, he states that his "critical 
rol~ withl lcontributt to mn)tjnla ~-];hoard chrlll~ songs and R. IAA certifications for 
artists such as I, I _ _ __ : _ an .__ _ _ ___,t' A letter from I I D SVP of A~~--------_.....,,..verifies that the Petitioner "has signed a publishing 
deal" and is employed as a songwriter, producer, and musician, and that his "writing and productions 
have led to multiple billboard charting songs ... " A similar letter from I I a music 
publisher atl land co-founder ofl I states that he has been collaborating with 
the Petitioner since signing him in 2010, and that the Petitioner "has surpassed all our collective 
expectations." And in a third letterJ I, Vice President of A&R a~ I notes that the 
Petitioner continues to work closely withl l an artist that he signed. All of these letters are 
supported by evidence from websites such as discogs.com and allmusic.com showing that the 
Petitioner is credited as a composer, producer, and musician on son~s performed by the artists listed 
above as well as others, and also by copies of contracts he signed witrl I This evidence 
does not, however, show that he has played either a leading or critical role for any of the companies 
with which he has been employed. 
First, regarding the Petitioner's role forl I the record does not include evidence which 
suggests that he has served in a leadership position or otherwise acted as a leader for the company. As 
for a critical role, the above evidence demonstrates that he has worked as a composer, producer, and 
musician on several songs for well-kn'C/-,I-IC..U...., ................. .,__,,.hich have been commercial successes. However, 
as noted b the Director in his decision is a large, multinational company which touts itself 
as.__ ___ ~~----~----' in the website materials submitted. Although the evidence 
shows that the Petitioner has contributed to several commercially successful songs, it does not show 
that these results were of significant importance tol ts overall activities, which according to 
its own marketing materials includes ownership ot1 I songs from well-known artists 
past and present. 
4 
Second, the evidence about the role the Petitioner ha.s served fo~ I concerns only his involvement 
as a songwriter, producer, and musician wittj ~ The letter froml J credits him with 
helping to create the artist's "signature sound," and states that he is involved on a dail basis with the 
creation of a new album. But neither the letter nor other evidence in the record about indicates 
that he has played a leading or critical role for the company, which is a part of '-----------' and includes several record labels and represents many popular artists. 
Third, the Petitioner claims in his response to the Director's RFE that he is a co-founder oti I I I and refers to the letter froml._ ____ _,~ as verification of this status. However, the letter 
mentions only thatl I has been collaborating with the Petitioner since meeting him in 2010, 
and that he anl his pirtners "immediately signed him to an exclusive publishing deal." As with I land the evidence indicates only that the Petitioner was an employee, and does not 
suggest that he served in a leadership role or that he was a critical part of any success enjoyet by the I 
company. Further, as the Director found in his decision, the evidence does not demonstrate tha 
.__ __ _.I has a distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the term "organization" is defined as "an administrative and 
functional structure ( such as a business ... )" and that individual artists constitute "going business 
concerns" and should therefore be considered as organizations. Although this definition, obtained 
from the website merriam-webster.com, uses a business as an example of an organization, it does not 
suggest that all businesses are organizations. Notably, the two examples found on this website refer 
to a formal structure, which the Petitioner has not shown to present iu the case rthe individual artists 
with whom we has worked. Further, in the cases otj ll an~ I 
the evidence shows that he was one of many artists who contributed to individual songs on a particular 
album, and was not a part of any formal structure. And although the evidence establishes that he has 
a close working relationship wittj l again there is no evidence of a formal administrative or 
functional structure of which the Petitioner can claim to be a member. In addition, as noted by the 
Director in his decision, even ifl lwas considered to be an organization as opposed to an 
individual artist, the record does not sufficiently establish tha~ I has a distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons detailed above, we agree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
5 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14515168 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of neuroscience, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through either 
evidence of a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(I) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a researcher specializing in the area of neuroscience. He received his Ph.D. in I I Neurobiology from University in 2014 and at the time of filin 
his petition was employed as a postdoctoral research fellow at~------------~ ~-----~I He states that he plans to continue his research in the field of neuroscience in the 
United States by applying for academic research positions. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to participation as a judge of the work of others and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating 
to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and contributions of major significance to the 
field of endeavor. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that although he meets 
the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification, he has not established sustained national or 
international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage ofresearchers at the top of his field. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence of several types of awards he received, including a 
scholarship, a fellowship, and an award for an outreach project he conducted. In responding to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), he primarily focused on his receipt in 2016 of the Early Career 
Investigator Award from ~---------- The Director noted the additional evidence 
submitted, which included information about previous winners of the award, but concluded that since 
the award is limited to members of0 it did not show that the award is nationally or internationally 
recognized. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on the reputation oO and refers to seven new reference letters 
submitted on appeal. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and 
has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AA0 will not accept evidence offered 
for the first time on appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Here, since the Director requested further documentation 
showing that this award was nationally or internationally recognized in his RFE, we will not consider 
these new reference letters. However, we note thp.1..in...r.esponding to that RFE, the Petitioner referred 
to a letter fro ml lof the L_J College of Surgeons! I who reiterates 
much of the information presented on the submitted pages fromOs website and also states a number 
of factors that led to the Petitioner's~eipt of the Early Career Investigator Award. In addition, both 
this letter and0 s website note thatLJ is the national neuroscience society I I and represents 
the c1untry it the Federation of European Neuroscience Societies. As this evidence demonstrates that 
Dis s leading professional association in the Petitioner's field, it establishes that the Early 
Career Investigator Award is recognized at the national level in that field. Therefore, we disagree with 
the Director and conclude that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The record includes letters from the editors of scientific journals, including The European Journal of 
Neuroscience, Journal of Neural Regenerative Research, and Frontiers, which verify that the 
Petitioner has served as a peer reviewer for those journals. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarZv articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted the title pages of more than 20 research articles he 
authored which were published in scientific journals. Additional evidence shows that he has also 
presented papers at scientific conferences. As such, we agree that the Petitioner has established that 
he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three criteria, and 
therefore meets the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification. Although he also claims to 
meet a fourth criterion, relating to original contributions of major significance in his field, we need 
not consider whether he meets additional criteria. Rather, we will analyze the evidence of any original 
contributions the Petitioner has made together with the balance of the record in conducting a final 
merits determination. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
3 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not go into great detail concerning his sustained national or international 
acclaim as a neuroscience researcher or his standing as one of the small percentage at the top of that 
field, but briefly asserts that his receipt of awards and his original contributions of major significance 
are sufficient to meet those standards. In responding to the Director's RFE, he emphasized the 
importance of metrics and statistics based upon the total number of citations to his journal articles 
when discussing the importance of his contributions, as well as within the final merits determination. 
Further, when discussing the impact of his scholarly publications in scientific journals on appeal, he 
also refers back to these metrics and statistics, and asserts that the Director failed to give them 
sufficient weight in his decision. We will therefore begin with a review of that evidence and the 
assertions made by the Petitioner based upon it. 
The Petitioner initially submitted evidence of his papers which were published in scientific journals, 
as well as the number of citations to those papers, from his profile page on Google Scholar. In his 
RFE response, he asserts that the rate at which his papers have been cited in comparison to others in 
his field shows that his work "has been widely cited in his field, which shows that his original work 
was directly implemented by others and of major significance to them." He specifically refers to a 
report in the record from Clarivate Analytics and asserts that it demonstrates his citation rate "is well 
within the Top 5% citation rate within the entire field of Neuroscience ... and is 4 times greater than 
the average citation rate of neuroscience researchers." Both of these claims are based upon a 
comparison of the Petitioner's "impact factor" in the years 2014-2016, calculated using citations to 10 
of his papers published between 2013-2016, to the 2017 impact factors of 261 scientific journals that 
publish articles in the field of neuroscience. 
However, these conclusions made by the Petitioner are not supported by the statistics and metrics he 
has included in the record. Most importantly, the Petitioner is claiming that his citation rate is among 
the top 5% in his field based upon a comparison not to the impact factor of other researchers, but to 
that of scientific journals. He does not explain how such a comparison of two completely different 
sets of data leads to his conclusion, or why it supports his assertion that he is one of the small 
percentage of neuroscience researchers at the top of the field. Similarly, his statement that his citation 
rate is four times greater than the citation rate of other neuroscience researchers is based upon a 
comparison of the average citation rate for neuroscience papers, not that of individual researchers, and 
therefore does not take into account the many factors that differentiate these figures, including that 
papers typically have multiple authors. Again, the Petitioner does not explain the relevance of this 
comparison or that it supports either his conclusion or his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
In addition, the usefulness of the comparisons suggested by the Clarivate Analytics report is put into 
question by other evidence in the record. A paper published in the journal Scientomerics on February 
29, 2012 describes and defends what is referred to as the "Garfield impact factor" as a means of 
"representing the relative contribution of journals to the total impact of information in a field," and 
stresses that "[T]he use of GF ( e.g. for evaluation purposes) should not be extended from the journal 
to the authors of papers," as the Petitioner does in reaching his conclusions. Also.I I I hates that he disagrees that "the comparison of average citation rates per year between [the 
4 
Petitioner's] publications and other researchers in the field does not show that [the Petitioner's] work 
has been highly influential. .. " As noted, the comparison made by the Petitioner is not between his 
citation rate and that of other researchers, but between his citation rate and the impact factor of 
scientific journals. While both the total number and rate of citations to a researcher's published work 
are factors that may be considered in determining his or her acclaim and standing within the field, the 
statistics and metrics provided here, and the conclusions the Petitioner draws from them, do not 
provide an accurate or complete picture of his relative acclaim and standing in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also focuses on the impact of individual papers he authored in addressing the 
significance of his contributions to the field of neuroscience. For four of those papers, he provides a 
brief summary, the impact factor of the journals in which they were published, and the number of other 
published papers which cite to them. He then refers to previously submitted reference letters which 
describe this research and its impact on the field. The first of these was written by.__ _____ ___, I pf O who has known him throughout his academic career and supervised his doctoral 
work. She states that durin his time in her lab, the Petitioner "discovered thq lthat 
speci fically.__ _______ ---.-----.-----,.------------1 which wi II be essential to the 
further development of this approach as a therapy." The Petitioner notes that this research was 
reported in a paper in the journal Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience in 2013, which had been cited 
to on more than 40 occasions at the time the petition was filed. 
Another letter referencin~ this same research was submitted by.__ ________ .....,.... __ '""'o""f-'t=h""'e 
University I ] who states that it was a "major contribution to the field o I I and "has received international acclaim and many citations in research papers, inc~l_u_d-in_g_t_h_o_s~e 
from my lab." However, he does not specify how the Petitioner's research has impacted his lab's 
research, or how his publication of "a recent important research review" evidences his international 
acclaim. 
Reference letters a,....d_d_r_es_s_in~_a_n_o_th_,er aspect of the Petitioner's research were writ;..:.t-=-en:..:......:b:...~c!:=======-
1 I of niversit of A li'r'll-u..i....iu..J.1.l~..J..._--,___J andl I of the Universit of writes th~at_t_h_e_P_e_t-it-io_n_e_r-'s~ 
"extensive research int.._._ __ --.-..----.-1 in.__ _______ __. neuron development ... has been 
truly groundbreaking." She further states that her research group built on this research which led to a 
published research paper, and concludes that the Petitioner's research "has and will serve as the basis 
for important further work that could lead to an effective therapy forl.__ ___ ___, 
I t' I I writes that the Petitioner's finding "tha~ !regulates the 
development ofl I" was novel and has since been duplicated, and represents "an 
important paradigm shift in out understanding of this complex developmental process that will shape 
the future direction of this field and my own lab." 
The letters also note that the Petitioner has co-authored several review articles which were published 
in scientific journals, which account for four of his five most highly cited publications. I I 
states that one such review article "has become an essential resource for our field." In his 
letter,.__ _____ _. writes that "[B]y comprehensively reviewing and analyzing broad areas of 
neuroscience research, [the Petitioner] has provided the field with invaluable sources of information 
on essential research areas." Another letter, submitted by an associate editor for Journal of Neural 
Regenerative Research, indicates that from 2014-15, one of the review articles co-authored by the 
5 
Petitioner was the most cited article in the journal. We note that Clarivate Analytics, the source of the 
impact factor metrics analyzed above, notes on its website that "Review articles generally are cited 
more frequently than typical research articles because they often serve as surrogates for earlier 
literature ... "1 
These letters indicate that the Petitioner's doctoral and post-doctoral research is original and has added 
to the understanding of processes related tol l allowing his fellow researchers in the 
field to build upon his work. In addition, as noted above, this work was recognized at the national 
level in 2016 through his receipt of the Early Career Investigator A ward froml I 
Also, the evidence indicates that his review articles have successfully compiled and analyzed the 
existing research in neuroscience in a way that other researchers have found to be useful. However, 
this evidence does not demonstrate that this work has placed him among the very small percentage of 
neuroscience researchers at the top of this field. Although the record shows that his work has been 
cited by other researchers in his field, the documentary information concerning impact factors 
emphasized by the Petitioner, analyzed above, is insufficient to establish that either the rate or total 
number of citations to his published research papers elevates his standing in the field to that level. 
And the award which recognized the excellence of his work at D specifically excludes more 
experienced researchers who may have spent years making contributions to the field of neuroscience. 
In addition, the record does not include evidence showing that his more recent work since joining I I as a research fellow in 2017 has received a 
similar level of acclaim. A letter from.__ ________ __.ofl bates 
that he has not worked with the Petitioner, but knows of his work in another lab at the school and 
provides a brief description. He describes this current research as "promising" and concludes that "it 
is likely that his work will lead to important advances in the field," but does not indicate that the 
Petitioner's recent work has already garnered acclaim at the national or international level. 
Further, the evidence regarding the Petitioner's service as a peer reviewer for three journals verifies 
his expertise as researcher in the field of neuroscience, but does not demonstrate that such a role is 
indicative of widespread acclaim or elevated standing within his field. A reference letter from the 
'--------~ The European Journal of Neuroscience notes that "we heavily rely on able and 
willing scientists to Rartake in the peer-review system," and that the Petitioner is a "well-qualified 
reviewer." SimilarlyJ I for the Journal of Neural Regenerative Research writes that 
the Petitioner was invited to review two manuscripts, and states that they are grateful to him for 
contributing his time and effort. Both of these letters demonstrate the voluntary nature of peer review 
work, and show that the Petitioner was recognized as a qualified expert in his field but not as one of 
the small percentage of neuroscience researchers at the top of the field. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner has been a productive researcher who has garnered acclaim 
at the national level for his doctoral research, but does not establish that a similar level of acclaim has 
been associated with his more recent work. It also does not show that his overall body of work thus 
far in his career places him among top researchers in the field of neuroscience. He seeks a highly 
restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather 
1"The Clarivate Analytics Impact Factor," accessed at https://clarivate.com/webofsciencegroup/essays/impact­
factor/#:-:text=The%20annual %20JCR %20impact%20factor,years%20( see%20F igure%201) on April 9, 2021. 
6 
than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held that even athletes performing 
at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2024 In Re: 30470568 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a Brazilian jiujitsu coach who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate he warranted a favorable determination in a final merits 
determination. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of 
the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We 
review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 
2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
The Petitioner began as a Brazilianjiujitsu competitor in 2012 at the age of 15, then began coaching 
others in 2015. He states he intends to work as ajiujitsu coach in the United States. 
The Petitioner provides numerous non-precedent decisions originating from this office. While 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that this office's precedent decisions are binding on all USCIS employees 
in the administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are not similarly binding. We may consider 
the reasoning within the unpublished decision; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as 
a matter of law. Further, each case must be decided on its own facts with regard to the sufficiency of 
the evidence presented . Matter ofFrentescu, 18 I&N Dec. 244, 247 (BIA 1982); Matter of Serna, 
16 I&N Dec. 643, 645 (BIA 1978). A determination on the facts properly rests on what is implicated 
within the record. "Other cases presenting different allegations and different records may lead to 
different conclusions." Twitter, Inc. v. Taamneh, 598 U.S. 471, 507 (2023) (Jackson, J., concurring). 
We will therefore base this decision on the facts and evidence contained within this record of 
proceeding. 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one ofthe small percentage at the very top ofthe field ofendeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20). See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS 
officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to 
determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level 
of expertise of the immigrant classification). In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not 
shown his eligibility. 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's ultimate determination with the 
added comments below primarily addressing claims within the appeal brief. See Matter ofBurbano, 
20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the 
practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been ''universally accepted by every other 
circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Edwards v. US. Att 'y Gen., No. 19-15077, 2024 WL 
950198, at *5 (11th Cir. Mar. 6, 2024) (joining every other U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals in holding that 
appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized 
consideration" to the case). 
The Petitioner filed the petition in December of 2021. We note this filing date because some of his 
appellate claims relating to awards occurred after that date. And while he must show that he intends 
to continue working in his area of expertise, he may not rely on achievements earned subsequent to 
the petition filing date within this appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). USCIS may not approve a 
visa petition ifthe Petitioner was not qualified at the priority date but becomes eligible based on events 
that occurred after that time. See Matter ofIzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175-76 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); 
Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). So, we agree with the Director that 
prior to the petition filing date, the most recent awards the Petitioner-or those he coached-earned 
were in the year 2019. 
We note a similar issue considering the Petitioner's membership in associations, as his arguments on 
appeal is related to his degree of blackbelt attained in February of 2023. Because that postdates the 
petition filing date, we will not consider it in any proceeding relating to the petition before us. 
Moving to published material about him, the Petitioner's appeal brief notes that even though his 
evidence was insufficient to satisfy the plain language requirements of the regulatory criterion it may 
still be considered under the final merits analysis. The Petitioner specifically identifies a photograph 
of him and its associated caption that accompanied an article about I Ichefs who have 
taken up jiujitsu. The Petitioner does not explain how this is indicative that he is among "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 
The Director explained why the Petitioner's judging performance did not amount to sustained national or 
international acclaim, and we agree. The Petitioner's experience was not shown to be the type associated 
2 
with those at the very top of the field. For instance, his performance as a referee was not at admired 
events such as the International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation's (IBJJF) World Championship, widely 
considered the most important and prestigious jiujitsu tournament of the year. Nor did he demonstrate 
the events where he performed as a judge were of similar stature. Although he performed at a single 
IBJJF event in 2019, the Petitioner does not identify what evidence would reveal this event's level of 
prestige. We do, however, question why the Petitioner provided a resume reflecting all of his judging 
experience was as a volunteer. 
The Petitioner's most notable claims relate to his leading or critical role he performed at 
Some consider the association located in I I Brazil to be among the most prestigious jiujitsu 
academies in the world. It was at that location where the Petitioner performed as a competitor as well as 
a coach. Even considering the Petitioner's performance for this organization, it is not enough overall to 
demonstrate he has enjoyed sustained acclaim on a national or international level, or to place him among 
those who are part of the small fraction of individuals at the very top of the field ofjiu jitsu. 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Considering the full measure of the Petitioner's ability and achievements, we agree with the 
Director that the level of his national or international acclaim and the extent to which his achievements 
have been recognized in the field are not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim as a competitor and 
a coach. Also, he has not submitted extensive documentation exhibiting he has attained a level of 
expertise placing him among that small percentage that has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 15, 2024 In Re: 30556469 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professor in the field of urban and regional planning, seeks classification as an alien 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this classification through 
evidence ofa major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three ofthe ten evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
I The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been working as a professor and administrator, primarily at the I ____ 
I in Brazil, since 2010. He holds a Ph.D. in transportation from the same institution. He states 
that he intends to pursue employment as a an urban and transportation planner in the United States. 
Together with his appeal brief, the Petitioner also submits copies ofpreviously submitted evidence, as 
well as evidence submitted for the first time on appeal. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of 
a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 
(BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). Because the Director notified the 
Petitioner in his request for evidence of the deficiencies in the record, and provided not only the 
opportunity to respond but examples ofthe types ofevidence which could be submitted, only evidence 
present in the record at the time of the Director's decision will be considered. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. Based upon the evidence 
of his participation as an examiner of doctoral theses, we agree with this conclusion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he also meets eight additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that he has not established that he meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria. 
2 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
This criterion requires that a petitioner show that they have received a prize or award, that the prize or 
award was granted for excellence in their field of endeavor, and that it is nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field of endeavor. Here, the Petitioner asserts that his role in a design team which 
succeeded in a competitive bidding process for the restoration of part of the city ofl IBrazil 
meets this criterion, as does his receipt of the title of "Autodesk Expert Elite." 
In support of his claim regarding the restoration project, the Petitioner submitted an article from the 
website of CREA-BA Magazine which names him as part ofthe design team that submitted the winning 
proposal. The article also describes the scope of the project and further explains the role of other 
members of the winning team. Also submitted were pages from the 2002 Annual Report of the 
Municipal Secretariat for Planning, Urbanism and Environment of the city ofl lwhich indicate 
that the city held a "National Public Urban Design Contest, under the organization of I to 
seek proposals to improve the area known as The Petitioner asserts that this 
evidence shows that this contest was national in scope, and that "large architecture offices from all 
over Brazil competed." But this assertion is essentially moot, since as noted by the Director, the 
evidence does not show that the Petitioner actually received a prize or award as part of the team that 
successfully competed in the public tender process. While the article verifies that the Petitioner's team 
submitted the winning bid, there is no mention of a prize or award given to the group or to individual 
members of the team. 
As for the Petitioner's title of "Autodesk Expert Elite," this is evidenced by a certificate stating that it 
was bestowed "to acknowledge [the Petitioner's] contributions to the global Autodesk community." 
The certificate goes on to state that it recognizes those "who have made great contributions with 
helping customers by sharing knowledge, providing community leadership, and exemplifying an 
engaging style of collaboration ... " A letter dated October 6, 2014 includes similar language, 
welcoming the Petitioner to the Expert Elite program and noting that it recognizes "a select group of 
our customers for their leadership and contributions made in the Autodesk customer support 
communities." Although the certificate can be considered evidence of an award, neither it nor the 
letter indicate that the Petitioner was awarded for excellence in the field of urban and regional 
planning. Rather, the evidence shows that the Petitioner was recognized for contributing, as a 
customer and user of a software product, to helping other customers. The Petitioner's assertion on 
appeal that, because Autodesk software is used by those engaged in the Petitioner's field, the Expert 
Elite certificate recognizes experts in that field, is not supported by the evidence of record. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has received a prize or award 
for excellence in his field of endeavor. We therefore need not consider his assertions on appeal 
regarding the national or international recognition of either of his claimed awards, and we conclude 
that he does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they are a member of associations in 
their field of endeavor, that the associations require outstanding achievements of their members, and 
that that determination is made by recognized national or international experts in their fields. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's memberships in the National Association for Research 
and Education in Transportation (ANPET) in Brazil and the American Planning Association (APA) 
did not qualify under this criterion, as the materials submitted did not demonstrate that these 
associations require outstanding achievements as a condition for membership. On appeal, the 
Petitioner points out that he has served as a peer reviewer for ANPET conferences, and refers to letter 
from the association's president. That letter acknowledges his service, and states that acting as a peer 
reviewer is "recognized by the academic community for the specific knowledge necessary for the 
development of the position." This is an acknowledgment that the role of a peer reviewer requires a 
certain level of expertise, not that the Petitioner's level ofmembership in ANPET requires outstanding 
achievements. While the bylaws of this association indicate that individual partners such as the 
Petitioner may apply for membership, and that application is reviewed by an executive board, there is 
no mention of any outstanding achievements required. 
Regarding the APA, the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's determination that it does not 
require outstanding achievements as a requirement for membership, stating only that it is "a prestigious 
organization dedicated to the urban planning sector in the United States." Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that his memberships in either of these professional associations meet the 
requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also renews his claim that his participation in the Autodesk Expert Elite program 
qualifies under this criterion, as do his memberships in governmental, university, and union 
committees. But the evidence does not show that the Autodesk Expert Elite program is an 
"association," or even if it is that it is an association in the field of urban and regional planning. 
Similarly, even if we were to consider the various committees to which the Petitioner was appointed 
as associations, on appeal the Petitioner does not point to evidence in the record showing that they 
require outstanding achievements of their members, nor has our review found such evidence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the.field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that material has been published about them and 
their work in the field of endeavor, and that the medium in which the material was published was a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium. In his appeal brief, the Petitioner 
asserts that the record includes six examples of published materials meeting these requirements. 
4 
I Several ofthe materials include either a mention ofthe Petitioner's name and/or a brief quotation from 
him discussing an aspect ofurban planning or transportation. For example, an article about motorcycle 
accidents in Brazil's I I published on the website of Correia Braziliense, mentions the 
Petitioner and provides a brief analysis of the problem which it attributes to him. But this does not 
represent a substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work as an urban and regional planner. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The same is true of an 
article posted to a blog site which also briefly quotes him, and an article in CREA-BA Magazine which 
mentions the Petitioner as part of team which will lead a restoration project in the city of I 
Brazil. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535(2012) (articles about the Iranian Table Tennis 
Team which only briefly mentioned the person were not about him.) 
Two of the published materials in the record are about the Petitioner and his work in the field of urban 
and regional planning. These are an article about new board members for the school of architecture 
and urbanism at the posted to the institution's website, and an article about 
planning and transportation issues inl Ion the website of Agencia Brazil. However, while the 
Petitioner asserts that both of these websites are qualifying media, the record does not support these 
assertions. In his appeal brief, he provides information about the entities on whose websites these 
articles appear, and provides links to other websites in support of this information. But as we noted 
above, it is the Petitioner that bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance 
of the evidence. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. Here, the record does not include documentary 
evidence to show that the websites that published the articles are professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. While it does include information about the educational ranking 
of the I by a third party, this evidence does not show that its website has as its 
intended audience professionals in the Petitioner's field or has sufficient viewership relative to other 
websites to be qualify as a "major" medium. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Further, even if we were to consider information on the websites 
regarding I I via the addresses provided, those addresses link to materials in the 
Portuguese language. 
As the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the submitted published material is both about him and his 
work and appeared in one of the qualifying types of media, we conclude that he does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Director concluded that while the evidence, including published papers, technical reports, and 
acknowledgments of his work on projects, shows that the Petitioner has been active in his field, it does 
not establish that his contributions have been of major significance in the field of urban and regional 
5 
planning. On appeal, the Petitioner initially focuses on his record of articles published in scientific 
journals and presentations at scientific conferences, as well the number of times his research has been 
cited by others in his field. In particular, the Petitioner's counsel counters what she terms as the 
Director's "assertion" regarding the significance ofthe number ofcitations with one of her own, stating 
that the "volume and depth of these citations is remarkable and unequivocally attest to [the 
Petitioner's] extraordinary contributions in the field." But counsel's unsubstantiated assertions do not 
constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, 
motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). 
Further, this criterion focuses on the significance ofindividual original contributions made by a petitioner, 
not the significance oftheir overall body ofwork. The record lacks evidence showing that the number of 
citations to a particular paper, or group of papers and presentations stemming from the same research 
project, shows that that paper or research has remarkably impacted the work of other researchers in the 
field. 
The Petitioner next focuses on the impact his doctoral dissertation has had on the field of urban and 
regional planning in Brazil, as shown by its citation or reference in planning documents and supported by 
reference letters from those who supervised or worked with him on the implementation ofthis work. One 
of the letters was written by Mr. D-, who notes that that the Petitioner has collaborated with his research 
group for over 20 years. Mr. D-states that the Petitioner's doctoral thesis "has the potential to inform 
policy making, computational modelling, and information systems design," and has "served as a 
foundation for reviewing, building, and upgrading transport engineering bachelor courses." Similarly, a 
letter from Dr. Y-, who describes herself as the Petitioner's "MSc advisor, employer, project manager, 
R&D project partner, and colleague," states that the Petitioner's "Integrated Planning Model, theory, and 
methodology ofindicator development have changed how we approach planning on multiple levels." She 
also writes that the his Ph.D. dissertation "has been a key piece of work in the academic systematization 
ofknowledge related to transport research." 
While both ofthese letters were written by experts in the field who have worked closely with the Petitioner 
through much of his career, the supporting evidence in the record suggests that they overstate the 
significance of the Petitioner's original contributions. Regarding his academic contributions in the area 
of trans ort research, the Petitioner submitted a es of a document titled 
Other than the title page and 
index, the evidence consists only of certain pages from an appendix titled "Syllabus and Bibliographies 
of the Disciplines of the Course of Transportation Engineering/UFG." This syllabus shows that the 
Petitioner's dissertation and two other papers are listed in the bibliography for "Discipline No. 36: Theory 
and Technique of Integrated Planning in Transportation," which appears to be a part of a compulsory 
course in the program. Under elective courses, "Discipline No. 93: Special Topics 2" also lists the 
Petitioner's dissertation, as well as another paper he authored, in the bibliography. While this evidence 
shows that the Petitioner's dissertation has had some influence in adding to the content of the 
undergraduate program in transportation engineering at a university in Brazil, this does not demonstrate 
that this work was a key or foundational piece in the widespread teaching in this field. 
The evidence regarding the impact of the Petitioner's work on an integrated planning model for 
transportation and the development of transportation indicators, discussed in the above reference letters 
and others written by experts who have worked with the Petitioner, consists of pages from several 
government reports. This includes the __________ from the Brazilian Ministry of 
6 
Transport, Ports and Civil Aviation, which includes a citation to the Petitioner's dissertation, among 
papers from other researchers, when discussing planning objectives. Another document concerning 
transportation planning from the ________ cites to three of the Petitioner's papers five 
times in its opening section when broadly discussing the goals and methodology of transportation 
planning. And the from the same agency cites the Petitioner's work as one 
of several bases of the methodology it employs. This evidence shows that the Petitioner's original 
contributions have been of some significance, as they have influenced policy in the area oftransportation 
planning at the national level. However, it does not establish that his work has been ofmajor significance 
in the broader field of urban and regional planning beyond the borders of his own country. In addition, 
we note that the reference letters, while generous in their praise of the Petitioner's skills and 
accomplishments, were written solely by those who have taught, supervised, or collaborated with the 
Petitioner, and thus do not evidence the influence ofhis work beyond this group. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner bases his claim to meeting this criterion on his authorship of journal articles, book 
chapters, and conference presentations. In his decision, the Director determined that while the 
evidence shows that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles, it does not establish that the journals 
and books in which those articles and chapters were published were professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. To determine whether a publication qualifies as a professional 
publication, we consider the intended audience of the publication among other factors. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Here, the evidence shows that the 
Petitioner's work was published in scientific journals such as Journal of Transport Geography and 
Transportes, as well as in the proceedings of international scientific conferences such as the World 
Conference on Transportation Research. Because these publications are intended for researchers and 
professionals in the Petitioner's field, we withdraw the Director's determination regarding this 
criterion and conclude that he has met its requirements. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that their work has been displayed at an 
exhibition or showcase, and that the exhibition or showcase was artistic in nature. The Director 
concluded that, in this case, the Petitioner had not established that his work was displayed, or that the 
conferences and symposiums were artistic in nature. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first asserts that the fact that articles he authored were published in the 
proceedings of conferences establishes that his work was displayed at those conferences. We agree, 
and withdraw that portion of the Director's conclusion. 
Next, the Petitioner refers to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), which allows for comparable 
evidence to be submitted ifthe criteria do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation. The Petitioner 
7 
asserts that since this criterion applies only to artistic fields, USCIS has "already recognized" that the 
display of work at scholarly exhibitions is comparable to the type of evidence required under this 
criterion. 
However, the Petitioner's assertion does not recognize that the burden of proof remains with him to 
show, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, both that this criterion does not apply to his occupation and 
that the evidence he has submitted is comparable to the type of evidence called for under this criterion. 
An unsupported assertion that an evidentiary criterion does not apply to a petitioner's occupation is 
not probative. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The 
Petitioner provides no basis for his statement that USCIS has already determined that scholarly 
conferences are comparable to artistic exhibitions or showcases. 1 As the Petitioner has not established 
that his work has been displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases, or that this criterion does not 
apply to his occupation and the evidence he has submitted is comparable, he has not demonstrated that 
he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined in their decision that the Petitioner's role as dean of the Faculty of 
Architecture and Urbanism at the was a a leading role. While we agree that the 
record sufficiently shows that this was a leading role, it does not show that it was leading for the overall 
university, but only for the Faculty ofArchitecture and Urbanism. 2 The Director ultimately concluded 
that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion, as he did not submit evidence to show that the university 
has a distinguished reputation. Because we partially withdraw the Director's conclusion regarding 
this criterion, we will review this second element as it pertains to the Faculty of Architecture and 
Urbanism. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references information from Times Higher Education regarding the ranking 
of the and provides the internet address of that organization's homepage. 
Again, it is the Petitioner's burden to produce evidence to establish that he meets this criterion by a 
preponderance of the evidence, and he has not done so here. Other evidence regarding the ranking of 
the is submitted for the first time on appeal, but as we noted above, since the 
Director specifically requested such evidence and provided the Petitioner with an opportunity to 
respond, it will not be considered. In addition, we note that even if we were to consider it, this new 
evidence relates to the ranking of the overall university, and does not address the reputation of the 
Faculty of Architecture and Urbanism. The Petitioner has therefore not established that this 
department of the has a distinguished reputation. 
1 We note that the Petitioner references USCIS Policy Memorandum 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with 
Certain F01m I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14, 
in making this assertion. But this memorandum makes no such statement. In addition, the update to the AFM sections 
included with this memorandum have since been incorporated into the USCIS Policy Manual and revised. The relevant 
section of the USCIS Policy Manual also does not support this assertion. www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
2 The university's website indicates that the Faculty ofArchitecture and Urbanism is one of fourteen colleges and schools, 
and the evidence does not show that the Petitioner had any leadership authority at the overall university level. 
https: ___________ 
8 
I Another organization for which the Petitioner claims to have held a leading or critical role include the 
where he served as a project manager and worked on the development of planning methodology using 
outcome indicators. As evidence of his role for this organization, he refers to two of the reference 
letters in the record. Mr. Z-, who states that he was the Director of the Development and Logistics 
Department of the when he met the Petitioner in 2005, describes the indicator project that the 
Petitioner began in 2010. He states that the Petitioner "met all project goals using outstanding planning 
skills and strong leadership qualities," and that he achieved "relevant results within the scheduled 
deadlines." Dr. Y-, who was the Petitioner's supervisor during this project, confirms his role as project 
manager for the indicator system project with the I I While these letters, and other evidence in the 
record, confirm his employment in this role and that it was leading in terms of the project, they do not 
sufficiently describe how it was leading or critical for the 
Other roles held by the Petitioner which he asserts meet this criterion include his membership on the 
Iand his role as a technical coordinator for 
on projects for the Brazilian government. However, the evidence supporting these roles is insufficient 
to show how he played a leading or critical role on these projects, as they do not provide any details 
about his leadership of the projects or how his role was critical. More importantly, as with the project 
discussed above, the Petitioner has not explained how his leadership of a project is leading or critical 
for the overall organization or establishment under whose authority the project was conducted. Also, 
he has not established that the projects themselves can be considered to be organizations or 
establishments, or if they are that the individual projects themselves have distinguished reputations. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate their receipt of a salary other remuneration 
through documentary evidence, and they must establish that in comparison to the salary or 
remuneration of others in their field, that salary or remuneration was high or significantly high, 
respectively. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted tax evidence showing the gross salary he earned in the years 2019, 2020, 
and 2021, ranging from BRL 290,521 in 2019 to BRL 311,544 in 2020. In responding to the Director's 
RFE, he also submitted from the website of Salary Explorer showing average monthly salaries in 
Brazil for 2023 for a variety of positions, including college dean at BRL 16,600 (BRL 199,200 on an 
annual basis) and faculty dean at BRL 15,600 (BRL 187,200 on an annual basis). In their decision, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner's tax information was insufficient to demonstrate his salary, 
and that the salary data pertained to urban planners and city planners. While we withdraw those 
aspects of the Director's decision, the Petitioner has nor established that his salary is high compared 
to others in his field. 
The salaries earned by the Petitioner are significantly higher than those reported in the salary data 
provided. However, there are several issues with the salary data that make it less probative as a basis 
for comparison to the salaries of others in the Petitioner's field. First, these are only average salaries, 
9 
and as such do not provide a clear picture of the range of salaries earned by other deans in Brazil. 
Second, the average salaries provided consider positions across Brazil, and thus do not reflect any 
regional differences that may make salaries in the Petitioner's location higher. Third, the information 
from Salary Explorer does not indicate whether the "13th salary" is included in these figures, which is 
listed on the Petitioner's tax forms. Finally, the evidence provides no information on the source of the 
data provided. All of these factors lower the reliability of this evidence as an accurate source of 
comparative salary information. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
We also note in addition to his duties as college dean, the Petitioner was also serving as the editor of 
I I a scientific journal published by the Department of Architecture and Urbanism at the _______ The evidence does not indicate whether this and other duties the Petitioner held 
beyond his role as a dean accounted for additional salary. Average salary information for those 
performing work in a related but distinct occupation with different responsibilities is not a proper basis 
for comparison. Rather, the petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in 
his/her occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA 
Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). We note that 
in Matter ofRacine, 1995 WL 153319 at *1, *4 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), the court stated: 
[T]he plain reading of the statute suggests that the appropriate field of comparison is 
not a comparison of Racine's ability with that of all the hockey players at all levels of 
play; but rather, Racine's ability as a professional hockey player within the NHL. This 
interpretation is consistent with at least one other court in this district, Crimson v. INS, 
No. 93 C 3354, (N.D. Ill. September 9, 1993), and the definition of the term 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2), and the discussion set forth in the preamble at 56 Fed. Reg. 60898-99. 
Because of the deficiencies in the salary evidence provided, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
his salary is high when compared to others in his field who are similarly situated. We note that the 
Petitioner submitted new evidence on appeal, including additional salary surveys regarding the 
position of college dean in Brazil. As previously stated, where a petitioner has been put on notice of 
a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764; Obaigbena, 
19 I&N Dec. 533. Further, we note that this new evidence has many of the same deficiencies as the 
evidence submitted in response to the Director's RFE. Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this criterion. 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
10 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-T-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 16, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
field of natural language processing and speech communication. See Immigration and Nationality Act 
(the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets an additional criterion, relating to making original 
contributions of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). He maintains that he 
qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-T-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204. 5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner's resume and other documents indicate that he received his Doctor of Philosophy degree 
in applied informatics in 2007, and has worked as a research associate and a research assistant 
professor at the The Director concluded that he met the 
participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly 
articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record supports this conclusion. 
Specifically, the Petitioner has offered letters from publications including IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, and the Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing 
Research, which are professional publications, confirming that he served as one of their manuscript 
reviewers. In addition, evidence confirms that he has authored scholarly articles that were published 
in professional journals, including 
that appeared in the Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, and 
that appeared in Magnetic Resonance in Medicine . While he has satisfied two criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), as we will discuss below, he has not met the initial evidence 
requirements of satisfying at least three criteria. 1 
1 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentat ion that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
.
.Matter of A-T-
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to 
the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: //www. uscis. gov/sites/ defaul t/fil es/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evi dence-pm-6002-00 5-
1. pdf. 
The record is insufficient to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, 2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). On appeal, he claims that he meets this criterion 
because he has authored scholarly articles, other scientists have cited to and relied on his work, he has 
presented his findings in international conferences, and he has submitted letters from other scientists 
praising his research. 
The Petitioner's written work, citation frequency, and conference presentations are insufficient to 
satisfy this criterion. The record includes reference letters and other documentation showing that he 
has published articles and a book chapter in reputable publications, as well as shared his research in 
international conferences. For example, a professor of electrical and computer 
engineering at the indicates that the Petitioner's "discoveries 
have been published in prestigious international journals" and that he has "been invited to present his 
landmark work at many national and international symposiums." Such evidence verifies that the 
Petitioner has shared his research. To satisfy this criterion, he must demonstrate that the reaction from 
the field upon the dissemination of his work confirms that the value of his research rises to the level 
of"contributions of major significance" in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). "[P]eer-reviewed 
presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite the alien's work as authoritative in the field, may be 
probative of the significance of the alien's contributions to the field of endeavor." USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout from Google Scholar, showing that his most cited article, 
published in 2014, garnered 60 citations, and his second most cited article, published in 2017, received 
26 citations. He claims that he has authored over 60 scholarly articles that have been cited 
approximately 360 times by others. He has not demonstrated the accuracy of this citation frequenc y, 
2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigrat ion Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4. 
3 
.
Matter of A-T-
which originates from Google Scholar. For example, he has not explained how Google Scholar tallies 
the citations or if its information is reliable. 
Regardless, the Petitioner has not presented sufficient evidence establishing that the citation 
frequency, assuming it is accurate, confirms that his work has provoked widespread commentary or 
received notice from others working in the field at a level consistent with "contributions of major 
significance in the field." Although he has submitted some examples of other scientists citing to and 
relying on his research, he has not sufficiently shown that his work has been cited as authoritative in 
the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant way. See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
While the record includes a number of reference letters, they do not sufficiently demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). According to a professor at the Speech-Language-Hearing 
Sciences Laboratory at the 
the Petitioner's "research has forged new ground in the field ... with cutting edge research in acoustic 
modeling and audiovisual speech synthesis." a professor of phonetics at the 
in France, states that the Petitioner's "expert background as a 
researcher in natural language processing and speech communication has given him an enhanced 
understanding of developing sophisticated and highly accurate acoustic models." a 
professor oflinguistics at the provides that his studies "on dynamic 
articulatory data ... to animate sophisticated articulatory models have gained considerable traction 
among fellow researchers" and that he has "contributed to the development and improvement of 
protocols for the dynamic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the vocal tract." 
a professor at the School of Engineering of the notes that the 
Petitioner's work "is of incredible interdisciplinary importance to researchers in the diverse fields 
spanning computational modeling, machine learning, and speech-language pathology" and that he is 
"an outstanding researcher" whose work has been published in "leading scientific journals." 
The reference letters in the record, including those not specifically mentioned above, discuss the 
Petitioner's research, publication, and conference activities, and conclude, based on these endeavors, 
that he has satisfied the criterion. As explained, dissemination of one's scientific findings in 
publications or conferences is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Rather, the Petitioner must show 
that his work has resulted in widespread commentary or acceptance in the field, or its impact has 
otherwise risen to the level of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 
602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
Some of the letters claim that the Petitioner has advanced the field. For example, 
a professor in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department of the 
indicates that the Petitioner "has helped move the field of 
acoustic modeling forward by incrementally refining the components of speech production systems 
toward the generation of highly natural, intelligible , and personalized speech acoustics, which has 
vastly contributed to the understanding of more nuanced and finer details of the speech production 
process." This and other letters also state that scientists in the field have cited to and relied on the 
Petitioner 's work. The letters, however, are insufficient to confirm that his impact or influence in the 
4 
.
Matter of A-T-
field has risen to the level of "major significance." See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that 
"letters from physics professors attesting to [ a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were insufficient 
to meet this criterion). The Petitioner has not demonstrated that his work -which may have resulted 
in incremental advancements in the field, as such are expected in any original research -qualifies as 
contributions of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, 
supra, at 8-9 ("Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and 
are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion."). 
The reference letters and other evidence in the record show that the Petitioner's work has added to the 
general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, however, insufficient to confirm widespread 
commentary or acceptance of his findings, that the field has regarded his work as authoritative, or that 
his studies have advanced the field in a significant way. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not sufficiently 
explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field significantly are 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F. 3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), 
aff'd in part, 596 F. 3d 1115, 1122 (9th Cir. 2010). 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner was involved in studies that were funded by well­
known entities. For example, documentation shows that he was a scientist who worked on a research 
on the dynamics of vocal tract shaping that was funded by the and that 
he subsequently published an article based on his work. It does not appear that he has ever been 
specifically listed as a grant recipient. Regardless, receiving funding to conduct research, without 
more, is not a contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that 
receiving grants or other similar funding are reflective of his past works' major significance, or that 
his research conducted with the funding resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. 
He has not made such a showing. Accordingly, based on the evidence in the record, he has not shown, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original contributions of major significance in 
the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, because he did 
not demonstrate that he, as a research scientist or research associate, has performed a leading or critical 
role for his current and former employers. On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically challenge 
the Director's finding. Rather, he claims that his work has impacted the 
at the , and that he "has 
assumed a leading role in the critical research initiatives. " 
To satisfy this criterion, the evidence must establish that the Petitioner is or was a leader. See USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. If the Petitioner claims to have performed a critical 
role, then he must establish that the role is or was of significant importance to the outcome or standing 
of the organization or its activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the Petitioner 's 
5 
.
Matter of A-T-
performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title of the Petitioner's role, but 
rather his performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. Id 
The record does not include sufficient documentation, such as letters from individuals managing 
explaining the Petitioner's role or how his role is or was leading or critical. The Petitioner has 
not offered corroborating evidence confirming that he has held a leadership position within or 
is responsible for duties that make him a leader, or that he has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome or standing of While most individuals involved with an 
organization can have some impact on the entity, to establish a critical role, a petitioner must document 
that his or her work is crucial to the success of the entity. The Petitioner has not made such a showing 
here. Based on these reasons, he has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of 
the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § l36l;MatterofSkirballCulturalCtr. , 25 I&NDec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-T-, ID# 2759914 (AAO Apr. 16, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 16, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a dentist in public health, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that she only met one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that she meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of A-M-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
A Continuous Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Petitioner is a dentist in public health. As an initial matter, the Director held that the Petitioner 
had not established that she intended to continue working in her field of expertise as a dentist, as stated 
on the petition, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), noting that the record indicated that she was currently 
employed as an adjunct assistant professor at The Director noted that 
in response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted an amended petition, indicating 
that her job title is as a dentist in public health. The Director also noted that in a subsequent RFE 
response, the Petitioner submitted a job offer from to be a full-time clinical instructor, 
indicating that she would be employed part-time at her dental practice. The Director concluded that 
the Petitioner had not established that she intended to support herself principally as a dentist. On 
appeal, the Petitioner first highlights the distinction between being a dentist and a dentist in public 
health, noting that the latter allows her to supervise dental students in clinical practice, conduct 
research on oral health disparities, and implement free clinics for _____ underserved 
populations. 
We note that the Petitioner 's statement accompanying the petition indicates that her field is dentistry 
in public health and then in her first RFE response, she cites the American Dental Association (ADA) 
definition of "dental public health" as "that part of dentistry providing leadership and expertise in 
population-based dentistry, oral health surveillance , policy development , community-based disease 
prevention and health promotion , and the maintenance of the dental safety net." In a more detailed 
statement submitted with the petition, the Petitioner states that she plans to take over the management 
of a particular dental practice, further expanding the private practice "to focus on providing holistic 
care that incorporates the principles [she has] mastered in public health and epidemiology. " 
2 
.
Matter of A-M-
We find that this statement sufficiently meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5(h)(5) which allows 
the petitioner to submit a statement "detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her 
work in the United States." Therefore, we withdraw the Director's finding in this regard and conclude 
that the Petitioner has met this requirement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not received a major, internationally recognized award, the record must 
demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria for judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) but that she did not meet the requirements for membership under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), or 
leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she 
meets these criteria. Upon reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has 
not established that she satisfies at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director held that the record contained evidence of the Petitioner's membership in one association 
and society and evidence that she received a certification as a consultant, but that this documentation 
was insufficient to meet this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner states that her membership in the 
meets the requirements of this criterion, particularly when 
viewed from the perspective of her field as a dentist in public health. The record contains a letter from 
director of the office of the trustees and fellowship affairs of the confirming 
the Petitioner's membership in the academy. states that "Academy Fellows and 
Members are distinguished professionals in medical and health professions and other disciplines 
affecting health, who embody the highest levels of achievement and leadership in urban health, elected 
by their peers." The record contains two pages from the website regarding membership in the 
academy, which states that "[p]rofessionals who have completed their graduate training or have 
completed graduate education and certifications as appropriate to their health care related field ... are 
eligible for Membership." This document then states that "[t]hey shall show evidence of performance 
or outstanding potential in one or several of the health professional's roles of practitioner, teacher, 
scientist, researcher, administrator or citizen." Here, we note that while membership requirements are 
based on "outstanding potential," this criterion requires outstanding achievements that have already 
occurred, rather than based on prospective events. The evidence in the record does not establish that 
being a "distinguished professional " who is elected by one's peers meets this criterion, which requires 
"outstanding achievements " for membership. Furthermore , the record lacks evidence showing that 
membership in was "judged by recognized national or international experts" in the field. T 
The Petitioner also claims that her membership from the 
establishes the requirements of this criterion. Although the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner 's certification as a consultant in this organization does not constitute membership , we note 
3 
.
Matter of A-M-
that the certificate in the record from the indicates that she is a member of this society. 
However, the record does not demonstrate what the requirements are for membership in the 
organization. The Petitioner submitted a webpage from which identifies the requirements for 
certification in clinical hypnosis, indicating that an applicant must "[h]old at least a master's degree 
in a health care discipline" and have licensure in the state where they practice; be a member of a 
professional society consistent with the degree, have a minimum number of hours of "approved 
workshop training" and "individualized training;" and have at least "two years of independent practice 
utilizing clinical hypnosis." These requirements appear to be for certification rather than 
membership, and even if they did correlate with membership, the requirements are focused on an 
applicant's education and training and do not demonstrate that membership is based on outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The record reflects that 
she has reviewed a manuscript for the journal Modern Research in Dentistry, which is sufficient to meet 
the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. She 
must demonstrate that her contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. She must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor 
Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 
2003). 
The Director indicated that the letters of recommendation the Petitioner submitted are insufficient to 
meet the requirements of this criterion. In addition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had 
presented her work at conferences, but he concluded that this does not show original contributions, 
indicating that there is no way to determine the originality of the paper or its influence on the field. 
He further stated that the Petitioner had not submitted extensive documentation showing that her work 
has been "unusually influential , highly acclaimed at the national or international level, or has otherwise 
risen to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field." Here, we note that the 
requirement of showing "sustained national or international acclaim" is a consideration for the final 
merits analysis, as this criterion does not require that the Petitioner 's work has been "highly acclaimed 
at the national or international level." Rather, the Petitioner must show that her original contributions 
are of major significance in the field by demonstrating the influence they have had on the field. 
4 
.
Matter of A-M-
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion for her contributions to 
program, which won the award. On appeal, she states that this award is "the 
preeminent forum for recognizing contributions made to oral health and dental education." She adds 
that while this award was specifically given to she made original contributions of major 
significance to the organization which led it to receive this award, citing a letter from 
and the former executive director of the program. states that the 
Petitioner served as the clinical director at the program and that 
before she joined the unit, it was restricted to providing only oral screening to children, as it could not 
provide nitrous oxide to relax children. He adds that "[the Petitioner] ingeniously implemented 
clinical hypnosis into the treatment of the children and that enabled her team to provide comprehensive 
dental care without the need of nitrous oxide." He then indicates that through this implementation of 
hypnosis, "patient visits to the mobile dental health center steadily increased," noting that she 
"expanded the program to include foster agencies in the 
further states that "[the Petitioner's] role with the program had additional ripple 
effects through noting that cavities "were significantly reduced in the 
pediatric population which in turn reduced emergency room visits and thereby unburdened 
the hospital." The letter describes effects on and its immediate vicinity, but does 
not identify what impact, if any, the Petitioner's contributions have had on the field. The Petitioner 
has not shown how her contributions within the program have impacted the field as a whole 
to equate to contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also notes the student-run 
free dental clinic in which dental students see patients under the Petitioner's supervision and provided 
free dental screenings and oral hygiene instruction to underserved individuals. While this is notable 
work the Petitioner has provided within the community, she has not established what her original 
contributions are to this clinic or how her role overseeing the students' work represents contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
The record contains letters from individuals in the Petitioner's field, attesting to her initiatives in 
providing dental care for children in underserved areas. An agency "may, in its discretion, use as 
advisory opinions statements ... submitted in evidence as expert testimony," but it is ultimately 
responsible for making the final determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit 
sought. Matter of Caron Int'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). Here, we conclude that 
these letters do not demonstrate that her original contributions have significantly impacted the field to 
equate to contributions of major significance in the field. For example, a letter from 
professor and chair of the Department of Health Policy and Management at 
discusses the Petitioner 's work overseeing the free dental clinic which serves 300 to 400 homeless 
people in annually, stating how uncommon it is for a dentist to also have expertise in 
public health and epidemiology. While this may be uncommon , the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner 's specialty in these fields amounts to original contributions of major significance in the 
field. Letters from colleagues that do not specifically identify contributions or detail how those 
5 
.
Matter of A-M-
contributions have influenced the field are insufficient. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036: aff d 
in part 596 F.3d 1115. Similarly, the record contains other letters from professionals in the field, 
attesting to her work in expanding dental care to populations in need in but she has 
not established that her original contributions have significantly impacted the field as a whole to 
constitute contributions of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 1 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 2 
The Director held that the Petitioner had not shown that she was responsible for any organizations' 
success or standing to a degree consistent with the meaning of "leading or critical role." On appeal, 
the Petitioner states that she meets this criterion for her role as the clinical director of the 
program, citing the letter from 
appears to be incorrect as 
at the 
program. as discussed above. However, this characterization 
letter indicates that the Petitioner was the "clinical director 
program" as opposed to the clinical director of the entire 
While the evidence in the record establishes the distinguished reputation of the 
College of Dental Medicine, the Petitioner has not shown that her role in the organization amounts to 
a critical role. states that he "worked for the of Dental 
Medicine from 1988-2015 in a variety of leadership positions including Executive Director of its 
award winning program until 2015." In discussing the Petitioner's role as the clinical 
director of the program's ___ states that her implementation of clinical 
hypnosis into treatment for children allowed her team to transition from only conducting screenings 
to being able to provide "comprehensive dental care without the need of nitrous oxide," noting that as 
a result "patient visits to the mobile dental health center steadily increased" and that she "expanded 
the program to include foster agencies in the states that the Petitioner also 
implemented a new method of managing the operations of the which "translated 
into more patient visits and revenue," leading to a surplus that they were able to redirect into other 
communi ty programs at While this has had a positive influence on the 
communi ty, the Petitione r has not shown how her role was of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization 's activities. 
1 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005. 1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https:/ /www.uscis.gov/sites/default/fi les/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i -l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1. pdf. 
2 Id. 
.
Matter of A-M-
The record contains a 2014 News Medical article about the award given to 
that quotes who states, "[t]hrough our public school-based clinics and 
enables us to extend oral health care to thousands of 
individuals every year who otherwise might not have access to care." The article later states, 
has established eight school-based dental clinics, and the program's 
van visits more than 80 locations throughout and the 
offering comprehensive dental care to children ages 3-5." While we note that the Petitioner has served 
as the clinical director of the of the program, this appears to be just 
one of the other dental clinics that make up The Petitioner has not shown how 
leading one of these dental clinics is of such significant importance to the outcome of the organization 
or establishment's activities that it constitutes a critical role. 
The Petitioner also notes the student-run 
free dental clinic in which dental students see patients under the Petitioner's supervision and provided 
free dental screenings and oral hygiene instruction to underserved individuals. While this is notable 
work that the Petitioner provides within the community, she has not established that this organization 
has a distinguished reputation or that her role was of significant importance to the outcome of its 
activities. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements for this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-M-, ID# 2248437 (AAO Apr. 16, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-Y-K-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 16, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an artist and art teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that she fulfills at 
least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the 
initial evidentiary criteria: display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects, for example, that her work was displayed at exhibitions in 
Russia entitled 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the display criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that she meets four additional criteria, discussed below. We have reviewed 
all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented her membership card for the 
of Russia and this organization's bylaws. Section 3 .1 of bylaws states: 
can be professional painters, graphic artists, sculptors, masters of decorative 
and applied art, photo artists, designers, architects, art historians, gallery and museum workers, 
journalists, other persons who have professional interests in the field of culture and art that have 
reached the age of 14 .... " In addition, section 3.2 indicates: "Membership in the is voluntary. 
Individuals are admitted to the membership of the on the basis of personal appeal in 
writing." The record also includes a document entitled 
explaining that those seeking membership must complete a questionnaire 
and provide a photograph, an autobiography, and information about their work, "including a list of 
exhibitions, catalogues, publications, reproductions of 5-10 works for different periods of creativity." 
This document further states that "[r]ecommendations from museums and galleries will also be 
useful." The aforementioned information, however, is not sufficient to demonstrate that reqmres 
"outstanding achievements" of its members pursuant to the language of this criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted the ' a description of the rating 
categories, a list of members of the and an August 2017 
certificate from the chairman of• assigning her an artistic rating of "SB (a formed professional 
artist)." The description of the rating categories the Petitioner provided states: 
I -an artist of the world fame, tested with time (for more than a century), IA-a world 
famous artist, IB - a high-class professional artist with remarkable organizational 
skills, who is popular and in demand. 
2A - a high-class professional artist with a bright creative individuality, 2B - a high­
class professional artist, recognized and in demand with the art-market and public. 
3A-a professional artist with a recognizable individual style, 3B - a professional artist, 
recognized and asked for in the art market and by the public. 
4A -an established professional artist with creative potential, 4B -an established 
professional artist, who is in demand in the art market. 
SA - a professional artist with creative potential, SB - a formed professional artist. 
The remaining categories are "6A-an artist with creative potential, 6B - a forming professional artist, 
7 -an amateur artist with perspective evaluation of specialists , 8 -an amateur artist, 9 -an artist­
beginner, [and] 10 -an artist-scholar." The record, however, does not show that the Petitioner's "SB" 
"formed professional artist" rating rises to the level of outstanding achievements. 1 Nor has the 
Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that applicants ' achievements are judged 
by recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that 
she meets this criterion. 
1 We note that the description of rating categories includes multiple levels above the Petitioner's "SB" rating that reflect 
higher levels of artistic achievement. 
3 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted various letters of support discussing her work 
as an artist and teacher. The Director considered this documentation, but found that it was not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constituted original contributions of major 
significance in the field. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the letters of support from 
colleagues in the field and an expert in Russian legal matters were insufficient to meet this criterion. 2 
However, as discussed below, the letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the 
record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific original 
contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major 
significance. 
With regard to the Petitioner's artwork, chairman of the branch of the 
, contended that she has achieved "success in the field of visual arts" and 
that "she can create her artworks in many different ways and on different media -canvas, glass, stone." 
In addition, asserted that the Petitioner's "technique of making paintings on the glass is 
of the greatest interest since it is unique and unrepeatable." Likewise, a Russian 
teacher-psychologist and poet, stated: "[The Petitioner] has created a huge amount of artworks. I 
especially want to mention the paintings that are made on the surface of glass. To create them you 
need concentration, attention to color separation, love of animals and great patience." While 
and praised the creativity of the Petitioner's glass paintings, the evidence is 
not sufficient to demonstrate that her artwork rises to the level of contributions of major significance in 
the field. For instance, the record does not show that the Petitioner's art has influenced other 
professionals in the visual arts fields, that any of her specific works are widely viewed as important 
pieces of contemporary art, or that her original work otherwise constitutes artistic contributions of 
major significance in the field. 
Furthermore , the record contains letters from several educators discussing supplementary arts training 
programs taught by the Petitioner at their schools. For example, deputy of the general 
director at . a network of kindergarten schools in Russia, asserted that 
the Petitioner ''conducted master classes on the theme 'Artistic development of children, Open talent 
in every child" for that company 's staff and that her training helped teachers "increase the interest of 
children in the art classes." Similarly , director of College of Small Business · 
indicated that "classes conducted by artist [the Petitioner] allowed college students to 
2 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
improve their skills and abilities to improve their academic performance" and "to consolidate their 
skills in composition, drawing and color separation." 
In addition, an English teacher at Public School in 
stated that the Petitioner "conducted free courses as a volunteer on additional art education for children 
from 6 to 10 years old in the Public School and that her program combined "classical art 
school and modern technology." further noted that this program helped children 
to "significantly improve the grades of academic achievement in common subjects at school." Another 
educator at that school, indicated that the Petitioner taught fine arts to disadvantaged 
children and that her program helped children with learning disabilities to improve their academic 
performance. 
The record also includes a letter from a attorney, explaining that "obtaining a 
license for [the Petitioner's] supplementary education program in the Russian Federation is not 
required." further stated that it was legal for Russian schools to use the Petitioner's 
"educational programs without payment."3 
The statements and information from the aforementioned educators and Russian legal expert, however, 
are not sufficient to show that her art programs have widely influenced the field beyond the schools 
where she taught or have otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the field. 
The language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's original contributions be "of 
major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting her students and their schools' arts 
programs. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had 
not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Without 
sufficient evidence demonstrating that her work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on her former role as Head of Design and 
Deputy of General Director for . a Russian company that designs automated teller 
machines (ATMs) and customer-activated terminals. For the reasons discussed below, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical 
role for or that this organization has achieved a distinguished reputation. 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 4 Regarding 
3 The Petitioner provided this letter in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) under this criterion asking for 
"Contracts with companies using [the Petitioner's] products" and "Licensed technology being used by others." We note, 
however, that the aforementioned types of evidence were only two examples among many listed in the RFE for this 
criterion. The Director's RFE did not limit the Petitioner regarding the types of evidence she could present under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
4 See users Policy Memorandum See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted 
with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-
5 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 5 
The record includes the Petitioner's "Book of Employment History" identifying the various jobs she 
has held in Russia since 1992. Pages 10-11 of this book list her position as "Deputy of General 
Director: The Head of Design Department" for but do not describe her specific 
duties. In addition, while the Petitioner offered a letter from the event director at , a 
client of expressing gratitude for "the design decisions" she made on projects as leader 
of her company's team of designers, this letter does not show how her role leading various design 
projects for was leading or critical role for The Petitioner also submitted 
a list of her job duties as "Head of Design Department" for Although the Petitioner 
contends that this list was "obtained from the employment contract with job description," she did not 
provide a copy of the aforementioned employment contract containing that list. Nor has 
she presented a letter from containing detailed and probative information that specifically 
addresses how her role was leading or critical for that organization. 6 Furthermore, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that such a letter from her former employer is unavailable. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(g)(l). For these reasons, the evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
performed in a leading or critical role for 
In addition to not demonstrating that she performed in a leading or critical role for the 
evidence is insufficient to show that this organization has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner 
presented multiple letters of appreciation from clients thanking the company for 
developing signage and displays for their ATMs and bank branches. For example, an April 2009 letter 
from the Deputy of General Director for the Department of Banking Technologies at an 
exclusive distributor of , expressed gratitude for "joint participation in the 
presentation of ATMs at the for banks." In addition, the Petitioner offered 
lists of the largest banks in Europe and Russia, and noted that several of these banks were 
clients. She also provided a November 2006 letter from stating that 
radio stations "Europe Plus" and "Retro FM" announced news "about the realization by the company 
of the project on creation of self-service banking zones across Russia by the order 
of the The record, however, does not include the transcripts of these radio stations' 
news announcements to demonstrate that their coverage was indicative of the company's distinguished 
reputation. Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted information about from its website, 
but USCIS need not rely on self-promotional material. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, 
aff'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). The aforementioned information and evidence is not sufficient to 
set apart from others in the industry or otherwise reflect its distinguished reputation. 7 
For the above reasons, the Petitione r has not established that she meets this regulatory criterion. 
14 l 0 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://vvww.uscis. gov/policymanual/HTML/Po licyManua l.html. 
5/d. 
6 Id. (noting that "8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l) states that evidence of experience 'shall' consist of letters from employers"). 
7 Id. (defining Merriam -Webster's Dictionary definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence). 
.
Matter of V-Y-K-
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner initially presented documentation from the Federal Tax Service of Russia reflecting her 
earnings as "Deputy of General Director: The Head of Design Department" for in 2010 
and 2011. In addition, she submitted information showing average monthly "wages of employees in 
a full range of organizations in general" for the Russian Federation and average salary levels "for the 
position Deputy General Director in Russia."8 The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence 
showing that she has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in 
her field and not just a salary that is above average in her field. Furthermore, because the Petitioner's 
field is art design, offering "wages of employees in a full range of organizations in general" for the 
Russian Federation does not provide an appropriate basis for comparison in demonstrating that her 
earnings constitute a high salary relative to "others in the field." 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided current wage information from 
msk.jobcareer.ru indicating the "average monthly salary for position Deputy of General Director by 
region" and "average monthly salary for position Art Director in She also 
submitted a letter from discussing the "forms used to confirm an individual's income in 
Russian Federation," how wages are "calculated at commercial organizations in Russia," and "[h]ow 
to determine the official salary for positions ... in Russian Federation" in comparison with "similar 
statistic[s] in the United States." In addition, asserted that "the amount of annual income 
received ... by 'Deputy of General Director, Head of Design Department' ... is significantly higher 
than the average wage for this position in Russia, as well as in or m region." 
The Petitioner's reliance on average salary information compiled from current job openings is not a 
proper basis for comparison. First, she must provide evidence showing that she has earned a high 
salary relative to others in the field rather than just a salary that is above average in her field. Second, 
the salary information she offered from msk.jobcareer.ru is limited to job vacancies and excludes data 
for filled positions. Furthermore, the information from msk.jobcareer.ru relates to current job 
openings rather than those from 2010 and 2011 when the Petitioner worked as head of the design 
department at 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 
(9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to 
others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers) ; Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner 
has not established that the wage information she presented constitutes an appropriate basis for 
comparison. Based on the foregoing , the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
8 The Petitioner did not demonstrate that deputy general director positions are indistinguishable in Russia, such that salaries 
are consistent regardless of the field of endeavor. 
Matter of V-Y-K-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her art and design work are indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-Y-K-, ID# 2731295 (AAO Apr. 16, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16402460 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a trumpet player, is currently a member of the.__ ____________ ___. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has recorded studio albums and toured as a member 
of th~ land has performed as a guest artist on the studio albums of other musicians. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he can satisfy five of the ten criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or international recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in organizations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the field; 
• (vii), Display of work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Performing in a leading/critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging. The Petitioner provided evidence that he has 
participated in the nomination process for the Latin Grammy awards as a voting member of the Latin 
Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences (LARAS). The record also reflects that he was a member of 
a jury that evaluated brass section auditions for youth and ~re-professional orchestras in the state of I I and for the I Symphony Orchestra. Accordingly, the 
record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets the four remaining criteria discussed above. He asserts 
that, with respect to the awards, display and leading or critical roles criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i), 
(vii), and ( viii), the Director's decision does not address most of the evidence he provided and therefore 
2 
does not fully explain why that evidence was insufficient to satisfy these criteria. The Petitioner 
requests that the matter be remanded to the Director for further review if we cannot sustain his appeal 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has not established his eligibility under 
the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner provided evidence that he is a 
voting member of LARAS. The limited evidence provided regarding LARAS' membership 
requirements indicates that creative or technical professionals involved in recording music will be 
considered for voting membership if they can document that they have at least six song credits on 
commercially released recordings within five years of applying. As noted by the Director, being 
credited on six commercially released recordings is a professional achievement, but the evidence does 
not support a finding that this level of activity is an "outstanding achievement" or that LARAS views 
it in this light. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that the LARAS membership committee also reviews supporting 
documentation such as media coverage and social media, but the record does not establish that this 
type of documentation is required by LARAS or that voting membership is only available to those 
whose achievements have received a certain amount or type of media coverage. The application 
review process is not sufficiently documented in the record, as the Petitioner did not provide the 
section of the academy bylaws that discusses the classes of membership, theirrespectiverequirements, 
or the factors evaluated by the membership committee. Additional evidence would be required to 
support the Petitioner's claim that he was admitted to LARAS based on his "outstanding 
achievements," or that LARAS only admits "the most successful musicians" as voting members. 
However, after reviewing the Director's decision and the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Petitioner's asse1iion that the decision did not adequately address his claims or evidence with respect 
to the lesser awards, display, and leading or critical roles criteria. An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the 
decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3(a)(l)(i); 
see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994)(findingthat a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this 
matter for a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner provided two "Silver Medal" certificates awarded by the Global Music Awards in 
2018 .1 In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director concluded that the 
awards "appears to have been conferred to the groupl t rather than to him as an individual. 
The Director further noted that the awards "appear to be local or regional in nature," and stated that 
the Petitioner did not submit "evidence to show the awards are internationally recognized." 
1 In response to the Director's request for evidence RFE the Petitioner provided a list of winners from a more recent 
edition of the Global Music Awards indicatin tha ndits individual members were awarded Silver Medals 
for the alb . The Petitioner did not provide his a ward certificate or a letter 
from the awarding entity corroborating his receipt of this award, which appears to have been issued in early 2020. 
3 
We note that one of the Global Music Award certificates was awarded tq I in the categoty 
.__ __________ _.for its albuml I The other certificate was awarded 
to the Petitioner, as an individual, in the I I category for the same album. Further, 1he 
evidence submitted reflects that the Global Music Awards competition does not place geographic 
limitations on competitors and appears to be international in scope, rather than limited to a specific 
region or locality. The Petitioner submitted copies of media aiiicles intended to support his claim 1hat 
the Global Music Award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize in his field. Finally, the 
record also contains additional articles and documentation related to the award and the award's 
sponsoring organization not referenced in the Director's decision. The Director's brief analysis of this 
criterion and the conclusions he reached do not reflect that he considered the evidence referenced 
above. 
In addition, we emphasize that not every awards program that draws from a national or international 
field automatically qualifies as one that is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in a given field. Relevantconsiderationsregardingwhetherthe basis for granting the prizes 
or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 Therefore, in evaluating 
this criterion on remand, the Director should also consider evidence in the record that addresses the 
entry requirements for the Global Music Awards, the number of awards or prizes given, the contest's 
different levels of recognition, and the criteria applied by the judges of the competition. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner "was part of a music group that performed at concerts," but appears to have based his 
adverse conclusion on evidence that was submitted to demonstrate that the Petitioner has also worked 
as an arranger, specifically, copies of sheet music that identify him as such. For example, the Director 
stated that "the copies of the music provided do not show the music was displayed at aiiistic 
exhibitions, [as] these documents did not contain a date or a place of an event." The Petitioner did not 
claim eligibility under this criterion based on his work as a music arranger. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should evaluate the evidence related to the Petitioner's live performances as a 
musician, which includes promotional materials for performances, media articles, concert programs 
and other evidence. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.I,EvaluationofEvidence Submitted with CertainForml-140Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html. 
4 
The Petitioner consistently claimed that he can satisfy this criterion based on his roles with! L D I I andl I The Petitioner argues on appeal that the Director's analysis of this 
criterion does not address evidence related to his role as a founding member ofl I The 
denial decision reflects that the Director concluded "the evidence does not indicate that the role the 
petitioner has performed forl I and the~---------~ were/are leading critical." 
However, the Petitioner con-ectly notes that the decision does not appear to reach any conclusion with 
respect to his role withl I 
The Petitioner emphasizes his critical role as a founder of the ensemble, and states that its distinguished 
reputation is evidenced by its receipt of a Global Music Award, by its international performances in 
Austria, Italy, Venezuela, Germany and the United States, and by evidence that its "international 
presence" has been recognized by "major media organizations." On remand, the Director should 
evaluate the evidence submitted regarding the Petitioner's role with this ensemble and evidence of the 
group's reputation to determine whether he satisfies this criterion. 
For the foregoing reasons, we withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least two 
additional criteria beyond the one already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality 
of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that USC IS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
prepondemnce of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15738320 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was studying for a doctorate in musical arts at thel I 
New York! I The Petitioner is a collaborative pianist, who routinely performs with singers 
or other musicians. Before he entered the United States as a student, the Petitioner performed with the ~---------------~ first as a singer, then as a rehearsal pianist and later as its 
"principal concert piano accompanist." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied nine of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two criteria, numbered (iv) and (vii). We will not 
disturb these conclusions. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two other criteria, numbered (v) and (viii). The 
Petitioner does not directly contest the Director's conclusions regarding the other five previously 
claimed criteria, and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned. 1 The Petitioner also states 
that his "qualifications should also be analyzed under the comparable evidence standard of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4)" but does not elaborate. 2 This general assertion does not specifically identify an 
erroneous conclusion of fact or law as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
Upon review of the record, we conclude, as discussed below, that the Petitioner has not met the 
requirements of the two claimed criteria discussed on appeal. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Several individuals provide letters praising the Petitioner's work with the~ and elsewhere, but praise 
for the Petitioner's abilities does not establish ma· or si nificance in the field. The president and conductor 
ofth asserts that.___----.,...---------,--------,1an album that the Petitioner recorded with the 
~-~ "was awarded as the Best~----~Album by the Top Ten Most Popular CD Albums of the 
Year 201 O," but the record contains no evidence to support this assertion. The Petitioner submits a 
printout of an Amazon listing for the album, which shows much lower sales rankings: 
#1,287,308 in CDs & Vinyl 
#14,332 inl I Music 
#53,675 in Opera & Vocal (CDs & Vinyl) 
#191,512 in Classical (CDs & Vinyl) 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained how his accompaniment oti~--~bn the album amounts 
to a contribution of major significance not only to the production of that album, but in the field overall. 
The principal ofi I Music School states that the school hosts an annual "educational lecture and 
~-~!recital." In 2014, when the Petitioner spoke and performed, the school "estimated around 350-400 
attendees for that night," but ultimately sold 576 tickets. The principal does not explain how this event 
was of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner has not established any original contribution that has had an identifiable impact beyond 
the occasions where he performed and the institutions hosting or sponsoring those performances. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 The Petitioner cites an unpublished appellate decision from 2018, in which we referred to comparable evidence when 
determining that a musician had satisfied the "display" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). In the present case, the 
Director already took that reasoning into account, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied the "display" criterion. 
Having initially claimed to satisfy nine of the ten regulat01y criteria, the Petitioner does not explain on appeal which criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation. 
3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in a critical role when he accom anied the on occasions 
such as the live performance released as the album~-----------~ and rehearsals for 
the 20041 !Olympics. The evidence submitted, however, is not sufficient to show that theDhas 
a distinguished reputation. 
As noted above, the record does not corroborate the claim thatl l's album is an award-linningl 
bestseller. Regarding thel !Olympics, the~---------~ asserts that the 
won the silver medal," but a submitted printout from the event's website indicates that thee=] was one 
of 1 71 I that won silver medals during a qualifying round. There is no indication that the I lwon a medal in the final round of competition. 
Also noted above, the Petitioner spoke and performed a~ !Music School. While the Petitioner's 
lecture and performance sold more tickets than anticipated, the Petitioner has not established that this one­
night appearance constituted a critical role for the school, or that the school has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that he also performed in a critical role for thel • l which consists 
of graduate students at the school where the Petitioner studied. A professor emeritus at the university 
states that the Petitioner was "one of the regular accompanists for ourCJ program," participating in 
rehearsals an~ "degree recitals." He does not claim that the Petitioner's involvement was 
critical to theLJprogram, and the Petitioner does not establish thatl I program has 
a distinguished reputation relative to other academicOprograms. 
The Petitioner played piano on~------~ an extended play record (EP) by violist ~I--~ ~--~I The album's producer and engineer states that the Petitioner's involvement was an important 
participant in the recording. The Petitioner does not identify the organization or establishment for which 
his participation amounted to a leading or critical role. The recording was produced and issued byD I I but the record does not establish the reputation of that company. 
(Reputation is a matter of outside perception, and the company's own promotional materials are not first­
hand evidence of how others regard the company.) The record indicates that the EP won two bronze 
medals from thel !Music Awards, but the record does not establish the significance of those awards 
or provide any information about the awarding entity or its nomination/award selection process.3 
Therefore, the awards do not establish the distinguished reputation of any entity involved with the EP. 
The Petitioner has not established that he performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
3 We note that the award letter misspells the violist' S name as I I' and does not indicate t~at any redals 
were actually furnished with the award. Instead, the letter invites the awardee to purchase "the very specia Music 
Awards medallion" if she wishes "to make [her] achievement visible to others." 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established that individuals who have worked with 
him have great respect for his talents and his ability, but he has not shown that this reputation extends 
beyond those who have worked directly with him in this way. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
recognition indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim, or which 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15865404 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actress, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actress and model who has worked in commercial, music video and film projects, 
as well as in print and television advertising campaigns for major brands. The Petitioner indicates that 
she intends to continue working as an actress in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet six of these ten criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (ii), Membership in organizations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material in major media; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in her field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of these evidentiary criteria, related to judgin~ 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a jury member for theLJ 
I IFilm Festival held in 2016 and therefore supports the Director's determination that she 
meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard in adjudicating the remaining criteria. She maintains that she meets five additional criteria, 
discussed below, and is otherwise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only one 
criterion and does not meet the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To demonstrate that membership in an association meets this criterion, a petitioner must show that the 
association requires outstanding achievement as an essential condition for admission to membership. 
Membership requirements based on employment or activity in a given field, minimum education or 
experience, recommendations by colleagues or current members, or payment of dues do not satisfy this 
criterion as such requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements.1 Further, the overall prestige 
of a given association is not determinative; the issue here is membership requirements rather than the 
association's overall reputation. 
The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility based on her membership in the ~I------~ 
.__~ __ _.I private members club, noting that the club "caters to a select group of industty 
professionals." She submitted evidence that she paid an annual membership fee in 2018 and 2019. 
However, she did not provide any additional evidence to establish that this club could be considered 
an association in her field, nor did she provide evidence of its membership requirements or evidence 
that admission decisions are judged by recognized national or international experts in that field. In a 
request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner of the deficiencies in the initial 
evidence, clearly informed her of the elements of this criterion that must be met, and allowed her an 
opportunity to submit additional evidence, such as the association's bylaws or constitution. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner maintained her eligibility based on her membership inD 
I I noting that it is I lprivate members' clubs originally aimed 
at those in the arts and media." The Petitioner explained that the club has a membership committee 
of 30 to 40 experts from "the creative industries" who meet Juarterly to discuss new members. The 
Petitioner emphasized thatthd.__ __________ __.club has "a very long waiting list" and 
includes prominent actors among its members. She provided several media articles abou~ I 
and submitted its "House Rules" in lieu of its bylaws or constitution. 
The Director determined that the evidence did not establish that I !requires outstanding 
achievements of its members as judged by national or international experts in the Petitioner's field. 
The record supports that conclusion. While membership in the club appears to be fairly exclusive, 
with membership decisions made at the discretion of a membership committee, the evidence does not 
demonstrate that the club requires outstanding achievements as an essential condition for membership, 
nor does it establish that the membership committee is comprised of recognized national or 
international experts in the Petitioner's field. 
1 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidcncc Submitted with CcrtainForml-140Pctitiom,~· 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6-7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguishedachievementsin 
origin a 1 research). 
3 
In her res onse to the RFE, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of her membershi in the 
Filmmakin Union which she described as a 
Specifically, she 
submitted a copy of her membership card along with an English language translation. The Director 
determined that this evidence was insufficient, noting that the Petitioner offered no evidence of the 
union's membership requirements and therefore did not demonstrate that her membership met all 
elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a new letter from filmmakd l who states that he is 
a Board Member of the Filmmaking Union I I and discusses the union's membership 
requirements and admissions procedures. The Petitioner emphasizes that the submission of new 
evidence on appeal is permitted based on Chapter 3.8 oftheAAO Practice Manual. 
While there are instances in which we consider new evidence submitted on appeal, in this matter, the 
Director's RFE fully informed the Petitioner of the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii) and the type of evidence needed to demonstrate that her membership in a given 
association meets all elements of this criterion. She was the op]ortunity to submit evidence of the 
membership requirements for the Filmmaking Union I prior to the denial of the petition. 
Accordingly, we will not consider this new supporting evidence in our adjudication of the appeal See 
Matter o_[Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on 
notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before 
the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will 
adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). The cited section of the AAO Practice Manual does not 
supersede case law or allow for the submission of evidence that was previously requested in an RFE. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in pro_fessional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must provide published material about her and relating to her 
work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and 
author of the material. 2 The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted "articles which merely 
mention you, which do not include their author, and which are about your modeling career" noting 
that "none are about you as it relates to your work in acting." The Director acknowledged that one 
article, published byl !briefly discusses the Petitioner's acting career, but emphasized that 
she did not submit comparative data showing that this publication is a major medium. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director's detennination that the published materials 
merely mention her is "blatantly false," noting that she was featured in the cover story of two 
2 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 7. 
4 
magazines as well as in several other articles. The Petitioner concedes that "not every article included 
the name of the author" but points to several articles in which the author was identified. The Petitioner 
also maintains that the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) does not require the submission 
of circulation numbers, but nevertheless emphasizes that she submitted this evidence for at least two 
of the submitted publications. Finally, she states that the evidence she submitted is "relevant, probative 
and credible" and therefore establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that she meets this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted articles published bY.,-------,--;:::=====-.:.!:' I =::;I 
I 
.__ ____________ _. ~-----~ .__ ___ __, and.__ ___ ~ We agree with 
the Petitioner that some of the submitted articles are about her, relate to her work as an actress, and 
include the required date, title and author of the material. 
However, to meet all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner must provide 
evidence that published material about her appeared "in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media."4 Here, the Petitioner submitted a considerable number of articles, but, with 
respect to almost all of them, she did not provide evidence to supp01i her claim that they were 
published in major media publications. 
Her initial evidence included a letter from the Head ofi I who discusses the 
circulation of the newspa er noting it is "one of the most respected and 
successful puh)jcatiaof i .__ __ _,with a circulation of 2.2 million copies" and "the leader among all 
print media inl,__ __ _. with distribution in 60 countries worldwide. The Petitioner indicated in her 
initial supporting letter that she was submitting an aiiicle from.__ _______ ~ but none of the 
articles in the record ( or their accompanying English translations) clearly identify that newspaper as 
the source. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from th~-------------~ publisher of the I " lnewspaper. According to the letter, this weekly newspaper's circulationof35,000 copies 
gives it a "leading position in the print media market ofi t' The letter lists otherregional weekly 
newspapers with circulation figures that range from 7 000 to 50,000 copies. However, the fact that this ~1 weekly newspaper has a higher circulation than some of the other weekly newspapers in 
L__J does not demonstrate that it qualifies as "major media" itj I 
In the RFE, the Director acknowledged that an aiiicle published byl I was about the 
Petitioner and her acting career, but specifically noted that she did not provide evidence thatl I I I is a major media publication. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner she did not provide any 
additional evidence in support of her claim that published materials about her have appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
3 The Petitioneralsoprovidedevidencethat she appeared as a print/editorial model in Marie Claire(Hong Kong) and other 
magazines, butthese publications did notincludearticles about her. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional ormajortrade publications orin other major media publications should establish that thecirculation(on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
On appeal, the submits a screenshot from Site Worth Trc~ffic (siteworthtraffic.com) which provides an 
estimate of "the website value ofl I" indicating that it reaches I 053 unique users each day 
and over 384,000 unique visitors per year (based on figures last updated six years ago). Even if we 
considered this previously requested evidence in adjudicating the appeal, it does not provide 
comparative data demonstratingtha~ [qualifies as a major medium based on its circulation 
relative to otherl I online media. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that any of the submitted published 
materials about her meet all the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(iii). 
Evidence of the individual ·s original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided reference letters from actors, producers, 
directors and others in the entertainment industry who praise her talents and abilities, but determined 
that the letters did not demonstrate how she has made contributions of major significance in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that letters from experts in her field are not presumptive 
evidence of her eligibility but asserts that they nevertheless "contain substantive evidence of [her] 
original and significant contributions to the entertainment industry." 
The Petitioner further argues that the letters "demonstrated that her work evoked widespread 
commentary, and thus were contributions of major significance." She emphasizes that the letters 
"expressly state that her performances and contributions to her field are 'unique,' 'particular,' 
'significant,' and 'original."' She also maintains that she "has major significance in the industlv 
because she contributes and embodies the extremely unique combination oti I I !culture." Finally, the Petitioner mentions her ability to speak~--------~and 
English languages, noting that filmmakers "would be extremely hard-pressed to find another actor 
who brings [her] specific background to the entertainment industry." 
The reputation of persons who provided letters in support of her petition is not in dispute in this 
proceeding, nor do we doubt their sincerity in praising the Petitioner's talents and abilities. However, 
it is the Petitioner's burden to both specify her original contributions and to document the major 
significance of those contributions in her field. The fact that she submitted credible letters from 
reputable individuals in her industry does not lead to a determination that she has satisfied this 
criterion, particularly if the letters do not shed light on the specific nature of her original contributions 
and their impact or influence on the field. We address a representative sample of the letters below but 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from actm~~----~I who states that she "has demonstrated that 
she can handle the demands of this industry and brings talent and devotion to every role." Music 
produce~ I praises the Petitioner's '"positive attitude and goal-oriented approach to 
6 
work," and states that "her acting skills and personal ualities contribut[ e] to the success in the 
entertainment industry." Film and television produce he Petitioner a~ 
intelligent, worldly and beautiful contribution to our industry" an-.... _____ _,, Chairman ofl__J I I states that she has "amazing ability as an actress," and "is a professional and a quality person 
with no bad habits." A letter from art director! I states that the Petitioner has "strong 
acting skills" and a "unique look" which are in high demand and contribute to "the cultural diversity 
and richness of American cinematographic culture.'i lo~ l similarly praises 
the Petitioner's "very strong acting skills" and '"unique look and talent," while actor and stunt/fight 
coordinatoJ I states that the Petitioner is "unique in her field due to her look, language and 
experience working around the world." 
The Petitioner also provided a letter from Hollywood producer and television series creat010 I lwho describes · · as an actress of "uncommon potential,"notingthathe had intended 
to cast her in the series n 11 tion. He states that she "brings the rare qualities 
of authenticity from her native~----~--~oots," and praises her intelligence, integrity, 
sincerity and work ethic, noting that she "deserves every opportunity to contribute to the American 
media industry, especially as our industry develops more and more transnational outreach."! I I I the Minster of Culture! I describes the Petitioner as "a talented and 
beautiful person." He states that he is "very proud that she is promoting our native culturd ~ I 
and abroad." I I film director and producer! I praises the Petitioner's "outstanding 
artistic skills," "perfect attitude" and her "multicultural background and incredible knowledge and 
understanding of people around the world." 
The Petitioner did not establish how having a diverse skillset, a paiiicular cultural background or 
language skills, or a unique look is an original contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. 
Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and 
talents to impact the field at a significant level, which she has not shown. Moreover, the letters do not 
comment on the Petitioner's impact in the field beyond the scope of projects in which she has 
performed or participated. 5 General claims that she has the potential to contribute to cultural diversity 
in American cinema do not establish her eligibility under this criterion. 
The submitted letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying the Petitioner's original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence her work has had in her field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that the authors used terms such as "original," "unique" and 
"significant" in their letters, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. 
The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The letters the Petitioner solicited from 
her international industry contacts establish that persons who have worked with her consider her to be 
a talented and hard-working actress, with a cultural background and physical appearance that are in 
5 See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013)(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not 
met this criterion because she did not corroborate herimpactin the field as a whole). 
6 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 8-9. 
7 
demand in the industry and allow her to perform in diverse roles. However, they do not demonstrate 
her original contributions of major significance in the field of acting. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3 )(viii) 
As it relates to a leading role, a title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 7 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner claimed leading roles for various brands based on her commercial 
and print advertisement modeling work, leading roles for magazines based on her appearance as a 
cover model, and leading roles in film and music video projects. While she provided evidence of her 
participation in the modeling and acting projects she mentioned, the Director advised her in the RFE 
that she would need to submit additional evidence in order to establish that her work has satisfied all 
elements of this criterion. Specifically, the Director asked that she submit letters from executives wi1h 
personal knowledge of the significance of her leading or critical role, noting that such letters should 
provide "detailed and probative information which specifically addresses how your role for an 
organization was leading or critical." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion bas¢..Qn....ili.e following 
specific roles: (1) leading actress in a l t commercial campaign forL__J (2) leading 
actress in a commercial campaign fo Stores and its cosmetics line; (3) leading 
actress inl hdve1iorials; ( 4) leading actress in the filml If 5) leading actress in the music 
video forl I'; and ( 6) leading actress in anl commercial campaign for the 
Chinese market. She did not submit the requested supporting letters from representatives of the 
organizations that employed her in these roles. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claims but determined that she did not establish her 
eligibility under this classification because she did not submit letters from "executive officers wi1h 
personal knowledge of the significance of your leading or critical role." On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that "[n]owhere in the 'plain language of this criterion' is there any mention whatsoever of 
'letters from high-level executive officers with personal knowledge' of an applicant's role, let alone a 
requirement thereof." Further, she maintains that she submitted letters from individuals who seive as 
owners, CEO and chairman of companies that employed her as an actress and directors of projects in 
which she staned, and therefore it is "completely ridiculous" for USCIS to claim that she did not 
submit such letters. She highlights excerpts from several of these letters on appeal, which we address 
below. The individuals who provided these letters did not state with specificity how the Petitioner 
7 Sec USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 10. 
8 
performed for their organizations in a leading role or in a critical role that impacted the organizations' 
activities in a significant way. 
The Petitionerrefers to a letter frorrJ l owner of advertising production company! I 
~ I who mentions that his company has worked with the Petitioner on campaigns for brands such 
as_ las well as twoO television commercials. The letter simply confirms that the Petitioner 
appeared in theOcampaign and does not speak to her leading or critical role within an organization. I I does not represent thec=Jbrand or the company that owns it I I and 
his letter does not establish that the Petitioner served in a leading or critical role within that 
organization based on her appearance as an actress in a commercial campaign for one of its products. 
The fact that the Petitioner appeared in commercials for a well-known brand is not sufficient to 
establish that she meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from.__ ______ ~ CEO & Co-founder o~ I .___~I who states that she is "one of our leading models and actresses [who] has been of tremendous 
help to our entertainment enterprises." The Petitioner did not claim that she performed in a leading or 
critical role wittj._~-~--~----'~ nor doe~ .... ----~t s letter provide sufficient detail to establish 
how her role was leading or critical to the organization. Further, the Petitioner has not provided 
evidence that this organization has a distinguished reputation. The Petitionerreferencesa similar letter 
froml !chairman ofl I who confirms that his company hired the Petitioner for 
"eleven (11) different projects as an actress." He does not provide any additional information that 
would establish how her role was leading or critical to the organization, nor does the record contain 
evidence demonstrating tha~ I has a distinguished reputation. 
The two remainTg letter! the Petitioner references on ap2eal are from who 
directed the film and I I director of the .__ ___ ____. music video. The letters 
confirm her work as an actress in these two projects, but do not explain or establish how her acting 
roles were leading or critical to a specific or anization or establishment with a distinguished 
reputation. She also provided a letter fro owner ot1 I who discusses 
casting her in a lead role in his fil.i,._ __ ____.but he does not discuss how her work on this film was 
leading or critical to his independent film studio, nor does the record include evidence establishing the 
distinguished reputation of that studio. 
Finally, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to consider other evidence that is relevant to 
this criterion, including deal memos, screenshots and photographs ofherwork, newspaper articles that 
discuss her projects, and letters from experts in her field who are familiar with her work. While this 
evidence confirms her participation as an actress and model in film, video, and advertising projects, it 
does not contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the Petitioner 
performed in leading or critical roles for specific organizations or establishments in way that 
contributed to their success or standing. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
9 
The Petitioner submitted the following evidence in support of this criterion: 
• A screenshot from the Department of Labor's online Occupational Outlook Handbook 
indicating that the median hourly wage for actors in the United States in 2018 was $1 7.54. 
• Screenshots from CareerOneStop providing salaries for actors in the .__ ______ __. 
Metro area" and the United States. 
• Screenshots from the Department of Labor's ONet Online website indicating that the 2019 
median hourly wage for actors in the United States is $20 .43. 
• A "Model Job Sheet" issued by.__ ________________ _,showingthat 
she earned gross (pre-commission) modeling fees of HK$155,000 between June and October 
2008 for fashion and beauty editorials and a photo shoot. 
• Her Russian "Statement on Physical Person's Income for year of 2013" (with English 
translation) showing total income ofF8510000 paid to her by I I 
Evidence regarding whether an individual's compensation is high relative to that of others working in 
the field may take many forms, and it is the Petitioner's burden to provide appropriate evidence, which 
may include geographical and position-appropriate salary surveys or similar data. 8 In addition, 
individuals who have worked in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics 
or comparable evidence in those countries, rather than by simply conve1iing the salary to U.S. dollars 
and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States. 9 
Here, the Petitioner requested that USCIS compare her 20081 I currency earnings and her 
2013 Russian currency earnings to average or median U.S. salary figures from2018 and 2019, which 
as noted above, do not provide an appropriate basis for comparison. While the Depa1iment of Labor 
resources she provided can be useful in evaluating evidence submitted under this criterion, they are 
only helpful for comparison when a petitioner provides evidence of her earnings in the United States, 
which was not the case here. The Petitioner did not previously provide any comparative salary or 
wage data for the countries in which she reported her earnings. Further, thel learnings she 
documented from 2008 did not include salary or remuneration for acting work. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides new salary data for actors working in I I Russia from 
Salary Expert.com. The Petitioner's 2013 earnings from Russian company 'I I are high in 
comparison to the "average" and "senior level salary" figures provided in this survey. However, the 
record does not contain any other information or evidence related to I I Therefore, even if 
we consider this new evidence offered on appeal, we cannot determine whether or to what extent the 
income the Petitioner received from I I in 2013 was paid to her as salary or other 
remuneration for acting work. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that she also provided deal memos relating to her work in the United States. 
With one exception, all of this work was to be completed in 2020 or later, subsequent to the filing of 
the petition in December 2019, and therefore cannot establish that she had commanded a high salaty 
or other significantly high remuneration as of the date of filing. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and 
8 See USCISPolicy Memorandum PM 602-0005.I,supra, at 7. 
9 Id. 
continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). A deal memo froltj !indicates 
that the Petitioner was to receive $5,000 per day for a two-day video shoot that was tentatively 
scheduled for late November 2019, but it was not accompanied by evidence that she had completed 
the shoot or been paid for this work as of the date of filing. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, 
regulations, and case law. Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited 
to the information contained in thatindividualrecordofproceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We 
are not required to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, 
merely because of prior approvals that may have been enoneous. See Matter of Church Scientology 
Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593,597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng 'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090(6thCir.1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
11 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 16, 2024 In Re: 30558946 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a watercolor artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that since 2019 the Petitioner has participated in several art 
contests and exhibited 
her artwork in group fine art exhibitions. In 2020 she completed training in academic drawing at the 
According to her personal statement 
submitted with the petition, the Petitioner indicates that she intends to continue her work as an artist 
in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed she could satisfy the following criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual and their work; 
• (iv), Judging the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, 
judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 1 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that she did not establish her eligibility with 
respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence that the individual has performed in leading 
or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which focuses on the 
volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of a petitioner's commercial success in the performing arts. 
2 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's determinations with respect 
to the remaining referenced criteria were conclusory and did not specifically address all the Petitioner's 
claims or evidence. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and full explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for further review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
which requires submission ofevidence demonstrating the Beneficiary's prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Although the denial decision 
referenced awards certificates, official programs, and articles pertaining to com etitions such as the 
2021 I IWatercolor Contest & Exhibition; 2022 
Watercolour Exposition I 2020 cover contest; 2021 
________ Watercolour Exhibition; and 2023 I IExhibition of the 
Watercolor Society, the decision did not otherwise address the Petitioner's claims or evidence related 
to this criterion. 
Instead, the Director made conclusory determinations that "the evidence is insufficient to ascertain 
whether the awards or prizes are nationally recognized or internationally recognized, for excellence in 
the field of endeavor, and in beneficiary's field" and "[t]he record does not contain sufficient evidence 
to satisfy each of the plain language elements of this criterion," without addressing why the 
documentation submitted in support ofthis criterion was not sufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden. 
On remand, the Director should review the record, including the appeal, and issue a new determination 
with respect to this criterion based on the totality of the evidence the Petitioner submitted. 
In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which requires submission of evidence demonstrating that she is a member in an 
association in her field that requires outstanding achievements of its members, with membership 
eligibility judged by recognized national or international experts in the field. The Director's decision 
acknowledged the Petitioner submitted evidence of"[m ]embership in and documentation about" the 
International Federation of Artists & Creative Union of Artists of Russia; International Watercolor 
Society IWS Globe Society; American Watercolor Society; and thel !Watercolor Society. The 
Director determined that "association bylaws do not state they require outstanding achievements or 
use recognized national or international experts to determine which individuals qualify for 
membership," but it is unclear what "association" is referenced. As the matter will be remanded, the 
Director is instructed to re-examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, and the 
Petitioner's letters explaining how the evidence supports her eligibility. 
3 
With respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted 
several articles from Russian online publications that discuss her and her work in her field. The 
Director's decision briefly referenced only "various publications" and concluded the Petitioner did not 
submit "other circulation data to compare with those of this website, or information about its intended 
audience." However, the Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of documentation 
in support of her claim that one or more of the submitted articles was published in a major trade 
publication or other major media. On remand, the Director should review the record to determine 
whether the Petitioner met this criterion at the time of filing. 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not consider sufficiently the recommendation letters she submitted, and, instead, 
summarily concluded that although the Petitioner provided evidence of the "originality" of her work, 
she had not shown the "art works have remarkably impacted or influenced the field as a whole." We 
agree with the Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult to discern, based on the Director's decision, 
what specific letters were considered in reaching this determination; the decision only vaguely 
references "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically identifying any documents. 
The Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of those 
claims when evaluating this criterion on remand. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If, after review, the 
Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record, evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and whether the record 
demonstrates that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that 
her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 17, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a travel agency director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits further documentation and a brief, arguing that he fulfills three of 
the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofS-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a travel agency director for in Georgia. Because he has 
not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three criteria, discussed below. 1 We have reviewed 
all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based on a 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a letter from co-
founder and managing partner of _ , who indicated that 
participated as a nominee at the first ever held ceremony in 2015 for the category, 
1 Although he previously claimed to meet the membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 3)(ii), the Petitioner indicates 
that he "misunderstood the requirement[s] for this section" and his "membership does not require outstanding 
achievement[s] to become a member." As the Petitioner concedes his ineligibilit y, we will not further address this issue. 
2 
.
Matter ofS-K-
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Here, the 
Petitioner did not receive a rather, the company, 
finished as a finalist. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that 
the focus should be on "the alien's" receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's 
receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that finishing as a finalist, 
as opposed to winning the award, is tantamount to a prize or award for excellence consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. Moreover, although the Petitioner provides evidence reflecting the purpose and 
background of the awards, the Petitioner did not show that the 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on an article posted on georgianjournal.ge and 
georgiatoday.ge. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material. 4 
While the article mentions the Petitioner as being the founder of the article is about the 
tourism company. 5 Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, 
e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 6 Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
include the required author of the material. Furthermore, while the Petitioner provides screenshots 
from Similar Web showing that georgianjournal.ge has a global ranking of 327,968, a country ranking 
of 1,181, and total visits of"l35.90K," and georgiatoday.ge has a global ranking of 681,905, a country 
ranking of 3,427, and total visits of "68.35K," the Petitioner did not show the significance of the 
rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such information reflects status as major media. 7 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 The record also contains a transcription for a television commercial. However , the advertisement is about 
the company rather than about the Petitioner. See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (providing 
that marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the Petitioner's products or promoting his or her services are 
not generally considered to be published material about him). 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated) . 
7 Id. (instructing that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media 
3 
.
Matter ofS-K-
Because he did not establish that his evidence meets the eligibility requirements, the Petitioner does 
not satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner's organization of a site inspection tour for to 
in 2016 did not show how his role was leading or critical. In addition, the Petitioner determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish that enjoys a distinguished reputation. On appeal, 
the Petitioner argues that he did not organize one tour but "worked to gain a partnership in that 
allowed access to Georgia so that they could take advantage of the demand from 
Georgian and International tourists in Georgia wanting to go to ' Further, the Petitioner submits 
a letter from managing director for . who stated that the Petitioner 
"had cooperated with our company before" and "had organized a site inspection tour to in 2016 
of the different VIP Travel Agencies from Georgia and was their group leader." 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 9 
Although letter confirms the Petitioner's involvement with , it does 
not demonstrate that he performed in a leading or critical role for the tour company. 
did not explain how the Petitioner's organization of a one-time site inspection tour reflects a leading 
role to overall. Moreover, while claimed that the Petitioner "played 
a critical role" and listed other tour agencies he brought along and hotels that were inspected, she did 
not further elaborate to show how his organized tour contributed to the successes of or 
resulted in increased visitors. Here, the letter does not establish that he held a leading position, and it 
does not contain specific information signifying that he was essential to the tour company. 10 In 
addition, the Petitioner did not address, nor does the record reflect, that ____ enJoys a 
distinguished reputation.11 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show the intended audience of the publication). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 Id. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner 's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
11 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merrian-Webster 's Dictionary definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
4 
Matter ofS-K-
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite asMatter ofS-K-, ID# 2757688 (AAO Apr. 17, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-W-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 17, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in spa design and wellness. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she 
must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the managing director for a spa concept and design firm. Because she 
has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying 
the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record reflects 
that the Petitioner served as a judge for the in 2010 and performed in a leading or 
critical role for her company. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner demonstrated 
that she met the judging and leading or critical role criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author of 
the material. 1 The Petitioner contends that she provided 28 articles that meet this criterion. The record, 
however, reflects that only four of the articles contain published material about the Petitioner relating 
to her work in the field. The remaining articles are about the Petitioner's company, 
Although some of these articles mention the Petitioner's name and reference her quotes, they are about 
the company and its spa-related projects. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *I, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 2 
Further, as it relates to the four articles mentioned above, the Petitioner did not include the required 
author for one of the articles (lifeandstyle.com). While the Petitioner claimed that the author was a 
"Staff Interviewer," she did not specifically identify the author of the material. 3 
In addition to lifeandstyle.com, one article was posted on wellnesstoday.com and two articles were 
published in Asia Spa. Regarding lifeandstyle.com, the Petitioner provided "About Us" screenshots 
and claimed that the "[c]ompany does not reveal" circulation numbers. Likewise, the Petitioner 
offered an "About Us" screenshot from wellnesstoday.com reflecting an affiliation with the Institute 
for Integrative Nutrition (IIN) and a screenshot from integrativenutritition.com stating that IIN "has 
provided a global learning experience for 100,000 students and graduates in over 150 countries 
worldwide." Moreover, as it relates to Asia Spa, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from 
bluincmedia.com indicating a circulation of 62,000. On appeal, the Petitioner presents screenshots 
from bluincmedia.com asserting that Blu Inc. Media is "[t]he leading luxury publication group in 
Asia." 
The record, however, does not demonstrate that the magazine and two websites are professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. Without circulation or viewing statistics, the Petitioner 
has not shown that lifeandstyle.com and wellnesstoday.com are regarded as major media. 4 In addition, 
the screenshot from integrativenutritition.com relates to IIN rather than the medium status of 
wellnesstoday.com. Finally, while Asia Spa claims that it has a circulation of 62,000, the Petitioner 
did not show the significance of the figures or explain how such numbers represent major trade 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. (providing that the published material should be about the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just 
about his or her employer or another organization with whom he or she is associated) . 
3 Similarly , the Petitioner did not sufficiently identify the authors of six other articles by indicating the author as the "Staff 
Writer" or "Staff Interviewer. " 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
3 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
publication status. Moreover, the screenshots from bluincmedia.com relate to Blu Inc. Media but do 
not show Asia Spa's standing as a major trade publication. 5 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that her evidence fulfills the eligibility requirements, she did 
not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that her meets this criterion. In order to 
satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has she 
made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For example, 
a petitioner may show that her contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether she 
has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
The Petitioner submits a copy of presentation and indicates that her concept 
was reported by cladglobal.com. Although the article states that has come up with a new 
child-specific spa concept," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that an article covering an idea shows 
that the field views it as being majorly significant. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
reporting on the Petitioner's design by a single website is indicative of an original contribution of 
major significance in the field. For instance, she did not show that her spa concept resulted in 
widespread coverage and interest in major publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that her spa concept was "embraced by 
and and 
references the design contract, letter of appointment, photographs of the finished spas, and a Twitter 
page from advertising the spa. While at least two entities have incorporated the 
Petitioner's spa design in their hotels/resorts, she did not establish that the overall field views her 
concept as a contribution of major significance. The Petitioner, for instance, did not show that her spa 
design has been widely implemented or highly influenced the greater field. 7 
Similarly, the Petitioner references a previously submitted e-mail from senior director of 
design and construction for , requesting a seminar to 
discuss her spa presentation. Moreover, the Petitioner presents a letter from who stated that 
5 Likewise , while the Petitioner provided circulation and readership numbers for the other publications and websites, as 
well as background information for the publishing companies , she did not explain the relevance of the figures or show how 
such statistics demonstrate status as major trade publications or other major media. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
7 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
4 
.
Matter of A-W-L-
the [] has the greatest ability to impact the future [emphasis added] of spa design 
that caters to the kids" and "would [ emphasis added] set apart a brand such as in the 
wellness facility/luxury hotel sector." Here, speculated on the potential influence and on the 
possibility of being majorly significant at some point in the future. However, did not explain 
how the spa design already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than a 
prospective impact. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not e>..'Plain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
Matter of A-W-L-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-W-L-, ID# 2752470 (AAO Apr. 17, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 17, 2024 In Re: 30586318 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics through sustained national or international 
acclaim, and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner is 
ineligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in "the sciences, arts, education, 
business or athletics," because she intends to work as a "chieflegal officer in the field oflegal science 
and law." The Director emphasized that "the practice of law is a profession" as defined in the Act and 
concluded that Congress specifically excluded members of the professions from section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to nonc1tizens who: have 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics which has been demonstrated 
by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation; seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
As a preliminary matter, we are unable to fully address the merits of this case because the record is 
incomplete. The cover letter submitted with the initial petition indicated that the Petitioner was 
submitting a total ofnine exhibits labeled A through I, with exhibits B through H intended to establish 
her eligibility under the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (viii) and 
(ix), and her intent to continue work in her area of extraordinary ability in the United States. The 
Director issued a notice of intent to deny (NOID) prior to denying the petition and, in that NOID, did 
not indicate that this required initial evidence had not been submitted. However, the only exhibits 
incorporated into the record of proceeding before us on appeal are exhibit A, which contains the 
Petitioner's statement in support ofthe petition and her curriculum vitae, and exhibit B, which contains 
evidence related to an award she received from the Ministry of Justice of the Russian Federation. For 
this reason, we cannot determine whether the Director properly considered all initial evidence in 
adjudicating the petition, nor can we base our own decision in this case on an incomplete record. 
The Director bears the responsibility of ensuring that the record is complete and contains all evidence 
that has been submitted by a petitioner or considered by U.S. Citizenship and Immigrant Services 
(USCIS) in reaching its decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); cf Matter of Gibson, 16 I&N Dec. 68, 
59 (BIA 1976). Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the 
inclusion of the missing record materials and further consideration. 
Turning to the sole grounds for denial, the Director noted that, for immigration purposes, the term 
"profession" as defined at section 101(a)(32) of the Act includes "lawyers," and that Congress 
expressly created immigrant visas for "professionals" in other categories. See sections 203(b )(2)(A), 
(3)(A)(ii) of the Act. The Director emphasized that if Congress includes particular language in one 
section of a statute but omits it in another of the same Act, adjudicators presume that Congress 
intentionally excluded the language from the other section. As section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of Act does not 
expressly include professionals, the Director concluded that Congress did not intend them to qualify 
as noncitizens of extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner's background as a lawyer, however, does not automatically bar her classification as a 
noncitizen of extraordinary ability. Lawyers may qualify for the requested immigrant visa category if 
their proposed work involves one of the designated statutory fields. See Immigration and 
Naturalization Serv. Gen. Counsel Op. No. 95-3, 1995 WL 1796310 (Jan. 20, 1995) (stating an 
2 
individual "who is of extraordinary ability in business or in some other EB-1 endeavor would not be 
ineligible for [this] classification simply because the [ noncitizen] is also a lawyer"). 1 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion on appeal that the Director's decision did not include 
sufficient analysis of whether her area of expertise and intended work in the United States fall within 
the purview of "business" as set forth in section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. Instead, the Director's 
decision reflects that they focused primarily on the Beneficiary's education credentials in the field of 
law and her tentative plans to accept a position with the title "chieflegal officer" in the United States, 
rather than on the evidence in the aggregate. 
Although the record before us is incomplete, the available evidence relating to the Petitioner's area of 
expertise and intended employment in the United States suggests that her area of expertise falls within 
the purview of "business" as set forth in section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. The Petitioner does not 
claim to be licensed to practice law in any U.S. jurisdiction and indicates that she has no intent to 
become a practicing attorney in the United States. The record reflects that, most recently, she has 
served as the chief legal officer for an aviation industry company where she provides legal support to 
the company's board and shareholders and supervises the operation of a legal department, but also 
implements digital technologies into the legal department, develops digitization strategies and 
company policies, and leads customer negotiations. She emphasizes on appeal that the Director 
mischaracterized the nature of her former and intended work. The Petitioner maintains that she 
consistently indicated that she intends to work as a business executive, and notes that her legal 
expertise, business expertise, and technology-related research do not fall within mutually exclusive 
fields. As the matter will be remanded, the Director should reevaluate the Petitioner's claim that her 
field of endeavor is business, taking into consideration the foregoing discussion and the arguments she 
sets forth in her appeal. 
The Director did not determine whether the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria for the requested immigrant visa category. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On 
remand, if the Director determines, after inclusion of the missing record materials, that the Petitioner 
meets these initial evidence requirements, they should then consider the totality of the evidence 
provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very 
top of her field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 We note that General Counsel opinions are advisory in nature and are not binding. R.L Inv. Ltd. Partners v. INS, 86 F. 
Supp. 2d 1014. 1022 (D. Haw. 2000), aff'd. 273 F.3d 874 (9th Cir. 2001). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 17, 2024 In Re: 29849078 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the mandatory minimum of three criteria relating 
to prizes or awards and membership, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with published 
material or leading or critical role. The Director also determined the Petitioner's material submitted 
as comparable evidence would not be considered, as he did not explain why the regulatory criteria did 
not readily apply to his occupation. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the same 
elements he claimed before the Director. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude 
he has not satisfied any additional requirements based on his appellate filing. 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's decision with the added comments 
below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 l&N Dec. 872,874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 
234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been 
"universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Martinez-Lopez v. 
Barr, 943 F.3d 766, 769 (5th Cir. 2019) (joining every other U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals in holding that 
appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized 
consideration" to the case). 
He first claims he meets the published material criterion within the appeal under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). But the Petitioner merely claims he submitted extensive evidence before 
the Director and indicates he has recently won various championships of international recognition 
including in event in April, May, and October of 2023. 
But, the reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the means to remedy what they 
perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a previous proceeding. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). By presenting only a generalized statement of an error without explaining 
the specific aspects they consider to be incorrect, the affected party has failed to identify the basis for 
contesting this requirement on appeal. See Matter ofPougatchev, 28 I&N Dec. 719, 729 (BIA 2023) 
( concluding issues that are not meaningfully appealed are waived); see also Matter of0-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) and 
finding when a filing party mentions an issue without developing an argument, the issue is deemed 
waived); Darling Ingredients, Inc. v. Occupational Safety & Health Rev. Comm 'n, 84 F.4th 253, 264 
(5th Cir. 2023). 
Also, as he filed the petition in March of 2023, he cannot benefit from awards he earned after that date 
in this petition and if he elects to include those achievements for consideration under this immigrant 
classification, he must do so within a new petition filing. A petitioner must establish eligibility at the 
time the visa petition is filed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). USCIS may not approve a visa petition if 
the Petitioner was not qualified at the priority date but expects to become eligible at a subsequent time. 
See Matter oflzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175-76 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
Next, the Petitioner addresses his leading or critical role claims under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Although the Petitioner identifies the evidence he claims demonstrates his eligibility under this 
criterion, he did not provide any explanation regarding how or why such material satisfies the plain 
language requirements ofthe regulation. This falls short ofthe Petitioner meeting the burden ofproof. 
The Petitioner's burden ofproof comprises both the initial burden ofproduction, as well as the ultimate 
burden of persuasion. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136, 1142 n.3 (BIA 1998); also see section 291 
of the Act; 8 U.S.C. § 1361. "Commensurate with that burden is responsibility for explaining the 
significance of proffered evidence. The significance of [ the evidence] is for [ a petitioner] to put in 
context and explain in a meaningful way." Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 
2014); Innova Sols., Inc. v. Baran, 338 F. Supp. 3d 1009, 1023 (N.D. Cal. 2018); Eguchi v. Kelly, No. 
3:16-CV-1286-D, 2017 WL 2902667, at *3 (N.D. Tex. July 7, 2017). 
Finally, the Petitioner's appeal reflects we should accept the letters from his colleagues because his 
sport is not popular in the United States. We note the Director indicated these letters would not be 
considered in their evaluation of the Petitioner's eligibility and they stated: 
The petitioner submitted several letters of reference from expert athletes and trainers 
in his field. However, the petitioner does not specify how these letters are comparable 
to the evidentiary criteria specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-[(x)], or explain why 
those criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. The burden is on the petitioner to 
demonstrate this. 
2 
First, the Director noted the Petitioner's failure to explain how the letters were comparable to any of 
the individual criteria, and he does not address that shortcoming in the appeal. Second, the Petitioner's 
blanket statement that several of the criteria simply don't apply to his occupation is not allowed under 
users policy that states: "A general unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does 
not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is not probative." See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual B. l, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. And as a final note, the USeTS Policy Manual also 
states "general claims that users should accept witness letters as comparable evidence are not 
persuasive." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B.1. For these reasons, we are not 
persuaded by the Petitioner's comparable evidence arguments on appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 17, 2024 In Re: 30233386 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , who seeks employment as a creative director, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserted that, after earning an associate' s degree in public relations in 2011, he 
founded 
"a business development company" in Nigeria involved in media production and advertising. The 
Petitioner has served as his company's chief executive officer (CEO) and creative director. The 
Petitioner stated that his company produced radio and television programs and a record album. The 
Petitioner has been in the United States since he entered as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor in July 2021. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criterion for leading and critical 
roles, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 The Petitioner maintains that he meets 
the other three claimed criteria. As discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
not established eligibility for the classification he seeks. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed to be "an accredited member of APCON," the Advertising Practitioners 
Council ofNigeria. He submitted a copy ofa certificate indicating that he participated in a "Professional 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att 'y Gen... 40 l F .3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Development Seminar/Workshop" conducted by APCON, but he did not submit evidence identifying 
him as a member of APCON, or establishing that APCON requires outstanding achievements of its 
members as judged by recognized national or international experts. The Petitioner has not further pursued 
this claim. 
The Petitioner is a member ofthe Electronic Media Content Owners Association ofNigeria (EM COAN). 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from EMCOAN officials describing the organization and attesting to the 
Beneficiary's service in various capacities. But the Petitioner's initial submission did not include 
evidence ofEMCOAN's membership requirements. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director instructed the Petitioner to submit documentation of 
EMCOAN's membership requirements and evidence to establish that recognized national or international 
experts are responsible for admitting new members. In response, the Petitioner submitted a copy of 
EMCOAN's Constitution. Article 5 of that Constitution reads: 
1. Membership of EMCOAN shall be open to any natural or legal person who is an 
owner of programmes solely intended for broadcast on television, radio, online and 
sundry new media. 
2. There shall be two categories of membership ofEMCOAN: 
a. Corporate members 
b. Associate Members 
3. Corporate members shall be those who have joined with duly registered companies 
with the CAC [ Corporate Affairs Commission] and have paid the prescribed corporate 
membership fees. 
4. Associate Members shall be categorised as any person with a verifiable and proven 
track record of Media Content producing in the Nigerian industry over a period of 6 
months prior to application/registration and have joined the association as an 
individual without a registered company. 
Article 8 indicates that membership applications are "submitted to the General Secretary of EM COAN 
and ... directed to the Executives," who, "if satisfied, shall present the application at its next General 
meeting for ratification. . . . The approval of the application shall be decided upon by simple majority of 
the members present and voting." The Constitution does not specify any criteria that voting members 
must consider, other than the factors listed in Article 5. 
Background information furnished by EMCOAN described the organization as "the umbrella body of 
Chief Executives [sic] Officers (CEOs) of Content Owners in Nigeria," and stated: "EMCOAN and its 
members controls [sic] up to 80% of all the television and radio programmes in Nigeria." Given this 
information, the Petitioner asserted: "it is clear that the leadership and the members are high powered 
and elite members in the broadcast industry in Nigeria." 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the evidence, including EMCOAN's Constitution, "does not 
demonstrate that the association requires outstanding achievements of their members as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that, given the status of EMCOAN's membership, the association's 
admission process involves recognized national or international experts in the field. But while 
EMCOAN's membership and leadership includes "high powered and elite members in the broadcast 
industry," the Petitioner has not established that EMCOAN requires outstanding achievements of its 
members. 
Under Article 5 ofEMCOAN's Constitution, "any ... person" who owns broadcast content qualifies for 
membership. The record indicates that the Petitioner joined EMCOAN as a c01porate member; his 
membership certificate names his company, and therefore he did not join as an individual member 
"without a registered company." The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's ownership of a 
registered media production company is, itself, an outstanding achievement. Article 8 of EMCOAN's 
Constitution does not indicate that the membership application process involves weighing the 
achievements of applicants. The document requires executives "to state [their] reasons for" rejecting a 
membership application, but there is no similar requirement to justify their acceptance of an application. 
Also, the record indicates that most Nigerian media content is created by EMCOAN members, and that 
EMCOAN considers itself "the umbrella body" for those creators. This information appears to indicate 
that most of Nigeria's content creators are EM COAN members. Such a scope of membership does not 
tend to indicate that membership is, itself, an elite privilege reserved for those content owners with 
outstanding achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter attribute to the president of EMCOAN, acknowledging the 
requirements listed in the organization's Constitution, but adding that each candidate must also "be vetted 
by the existing membership determine ifhe or she is indeed part ofthe highest and most skilled echelons 
of the broadcasting professions." The Petitioner has not supported this new claim with documentary 
evidence to confirm that such vetting is part ofthe admission process. The new claim appears to conflict 
with the clause in the Constitution specifying that "[m ]embership of EM COAN shall be open to any 
natural or legal person who is an owner ofprogrammes solely intended for broadcast" ( emphasis added). 
The same EMCOAN official wrote an earlier letter in support of the petition, which did not indicate that 
the membership application process involved steps or requirements beyond those spelled out in the 
organizations' governing documents. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof to established, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, that he 
meets the requirements ofthis criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner stated: "As a Creative Director the [Petitioner] makes approximately 3,600,000.00 
Nigerian Naira annually. Salary reports from Nigeria report approximately N300,000 per month salary 
for Creative Directors .... Accordingly, the [Petitioner] earns more than others in the field." But N3.6 
million per year is equivalent to, not higher than, N300,000 per month. 
The Petitioner has not submitted consistent, reliable evidence to support the figures claimed above. 
Regarding his own compensation, the Petitioner did not directly document his salary with evidence such 
as pay receipts. The Petitioner submitted bank statements from his personal account and that of his 
4 
company from 2017 to 2022, but the documents do not show regular deposits consistent with salary 
payments. The Petitioner's personal statements show credits in varying amounts at irregular intervals 
from a number of different sources, including several from his own spouse. The Petitioner's company 
was the source of many of these payments from 2017 to 2021, but the Petitioner did not document the 
nature or purpose ofthese transactions to establish that they constitute salary or remuneration for services. 
The payments from the company to the Petitioner varied widely in terms ofboth amount and timing, and 
do not readily distinguish between base salary, bonuses, reimbursement for expenses, and payments for 
other reasons. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner "did not provide supporting fmancial documentation 
( e.g., payroll records or income tax forms) demonstrating [his] actual earnings for any given period of 
time." In response, the Petitioner submitted additional copies of the same bank documents. He did not 
explain the absence ofdocumentation to explain the purposes ofthe transactions, nor did he acknowledge 
this element of the RFE. The Petitioner noted the total credits into his personal account, but as noted 
above, those funds came from a number of different sources and the Petitioner did not establish which 
credits were related to remuneration for services. These totals vary widely, with the highest figure being 
nearly N24 million in 2017. The following year, 2018, the Petitioner's personal account received less 
than N800,000 from all sources combined. 
To establish a basis for comparison with others in his field, the Petitioner initially submitted screen 
captures from two salary survey websites. My Salary Scale stated: "The average net salary for Creative 
Director in Nigeria is N286K," but this average was an estimate, derived from only 12 sample figures. 
The other screen capture, from Salary Explorer, indicated that monthly salaries for '"a Creative Director 
in Nigeria" ranged from N174,000 to N498,000, averaging N327,000, which is higher than the 
Petitioner's claimed salary. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not provided "official wage statistics as a basis for 
comparison" between the Beneficiary's compensation and that of others in his field. In response, the 
Petitioner submitted printouts from various survey sources. A report from Salary Explorer indicated that 
the yearly salary ofa creative director in Nigeria ranges from N2..08 million to N5 .97 million, with a mean 
salary ofN3.93 million and a median salary ofN3.54 million. The mean salary, roughly consistent with 
the less detailed Salary E-.,;plorer information submitted earlier, is higher than the N3 .6 million that the 
Petitioner initially claimed to have earned per year. 
The Petitioner also submitted a graph from Payscale, indicating a median annual salary of N1.75 million, 
and statistics from Glassdoor indicting that "[t]he estimated total pay for a Creative Director [in Nigeria] 
is NGN 407,000 per month," comprising N215,000 in base salary and Nl92,000 in additional pay such 
as "bonus, commission, tips, and profit sharing." As with the first set of figures, the newly submitted 
numbers are not consistent with one another, raising doubts about the comprehensiveness and accuracy 
of the surveys. The Glassdoor printout shows figures from various employers that are considerably 
higher than the Petitioner's initial claim ofN3.6 million per year; one reported salary was N25 million 
per year, and two others were each N15 million. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's evidence did not distinguish his salary 
from other, umelated income, and therefore the Petitioner has not established what his salary actually 
was. The Petitioner does not address this issue on appeal. 
5 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner had not established a reliable basis to compare the 
Petitioner's earnings with those ofothers in the same field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "Nigeria 
... is still considered a developing country," and therefore "the evidence of high salary will not be as 
sophisticated [as the evidence available from] a developed country like the US." The Petitioner asserts 
that the wage survey data in the record should be sufficient to show that he has earned a comparatively 
high salary. 
As shown above, the Petitioner submitted figures from four different sources, which provided very 
different figures, with no evidence to show which was the most reliable among them. Some websites 
provide user-reported salary data, which may not be a valid comparison if, for example, too few users 
reported their salaries or the data is othe1wise not credible or reliable. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F .2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Fmihennore, all the survey data concerns individuals employed as creative directors. The Petitioner does 
not claim to have been employed solely as a creative director. Rather, he was the CEO of his own 
company, where the responsibilities ofa creative director were only part ofhis duties. The Petitioner has 
not explained why it is appropriate to compare the salary he received as the CEO of his own company to 
those ofindividuals employed solely or primarily as creative directors. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his salary or other remuneration, and 
he has not submitted adequate evidence to allow a meaningful comparison to others in the field. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner has not met the requirements of at least three of the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), pertaining to original contributions ofmajor significance in the field, cannot change the 
outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits dete1mination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not supp01i a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The Petitioner has established that his company has worked on publicity 
campaigns for some high-profile clients, but the record does not establish that the Petitioner has earned 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
a degree of recognition sufficient to show the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrate a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, 
the Petitioner stated that he was involved in an adve1iising campaign that involved the construction of 
a 14-meter-high fiberglass beer bottle. The Petitioner discussed the originality of the concept, and 
submitted media articles about the bottle, but he did not show that the project resulted in acclaim or 
recognition for him personally as the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16493438 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 21, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a development director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The Petitioner appealed that decision to our office, and we dismissed the appeal. We 
determined that the Petitioner met the requisite initial evidentiary requirements but concluded in a 
final merits determination that he did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is among the small percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a motion to reconsider , which we also dismissed. The matter is now before us on 
a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fmih a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l)(i), which, in this case, was our dismissal of the Petitioner's previous 
motion to reconsider. The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts to warrant 
reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
In our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, we determined that although he met the initial 
evidence requirements by satisfying three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he 
did not establish his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small 
percentage of individuals at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(2). 
In the prior motion to reconsider, the Petitioner argued that we overlooked or did not properly weigh 
certain evidence related to the awards, judging, and original contributions criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v). He asse1ied that pro per consideration of that evidence should have resulted 
in a conclusion in the final merits dete1mination that he established his sustained acclaim and 
placement among the small percentage of at the very top of his field. In dismissing the motion to 
reconsider, we considered each of his claims in tum and explained how our appellate decision did in 
fact address the specific evidence he claimed had been overlooked. We observed that while the 
Petitioner may have disagreed with our assessment of that evidence, he did not establish that we had 
2 
overlooked it in adjudicating his appeal, or that we had misapplied law or users policy in our 
evaluation of such evidence. Finally, we acknowledged the Petitioner's request that we consider new 
evidence submitted for the first time in support of his motion to reconsider. We did not consider the 
new evidence, emphasizing that a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord atthe time of the initial decision. See 8 e.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
With the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief in which he repeats nearly verbatim the same 
arguments made in his brief in support of his first motion to reconsider. Specifically, the Petitioner 
once again claims that we failed to consider certain evidence he submitted in support of the awards, 
judging and original contributions criteria at 8 e.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv) and (v) in adjudicating his 
appeal. As noted, these claims were acknowledged and thoroughly addressed in our decision 
dismissing the previous motion. The Petitioner makes no reference to the merits of that decision but 
rather focuses on our appellate decision, which is not before us in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner cannot meet the requirements of a motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with 
our conclusions; the motion must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See Matter 
of 0-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by 
which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging 
error in the prior decision.) 
Moreover, the Petitioner does not argue that we incorrectly applied law or users policy by dismissing 
his motion to reconsider. Most of the Petitioner's brief in supp mi of the current motion is devoted to 
a criticism of users policy guidance related to the adjudication of extraordinary ability immigrant 
petitions.1 This criticism includes a rejection ofUSeTS' reliance on Kazarian as a basis for conducting 
a multi-part analysis that includes a final merits determination. The Petitioner nevertheless 
acknowledges that the referenced guidance is established agency policy and does not articulate a claim 
that we misapplied this policy in our adjudication of his prior motion to reconsider. Rather, the 
Petitioner maintains that we erred in our adjudication of the appeal by adhering to Kazarian and 
applicable users policy. 
Specifically, the Petitioner argues that "it is an abuse of discretion for users to rely on Kazarian for 
the final merits analysis," particularly because the petitioner in Kazarian, unlike the Petitioner here, 
did not satisfy at least three of the criteria at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and because "Kazarian 
mentions the concept of a final merits detennination merely in passing and does not explain or provide 
a structural framework for such a determination." He fmiher argues that "[i]nstead, the weighing of 
the quality and credibility of evidence should be guided by prior federal court decisions." The 
Petitioner specifically highlights Buletini v. INS, 850 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994 ), noting that 
"the nature and scheme of the analysis articulated by Buletini most closely adheres to the plain 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html. 
3 
meaning of the statute and regulations."2 The Petitioner therefore maintains that we should have 
applied Buletini, a pre-Kazarian district court decision, in adjudicating his appeal. 
We note, however, that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United 
States district court in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1993 ). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration 
when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. 
Id.at 719. 
Regardless, the Buletini decision does not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization 
of the adjudication process as including a final merits determination. The Buletini opinion indicates 
that the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria 
and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard if USCIS provides specific and substantiated 
reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject 
at any time the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it 
establishes a Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification. Further, as already 
discussed, the Petitioner's assertion that we should have relied on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian 
federal district court decisions rather than Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not 
persuasive. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the current motion, he does not 
contend that we misapplied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions. 
As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider, and 8 C.F.R. § 
103 .5(a)( 4) requires dismissal of the motion. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ I 03.5(a)(2). Although the Petitioner indicated on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, 
that he was filing a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , the Petitioner has neither 
presented new facts in his brief nor submitted any documentary evidence in support of the instant 
motion. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
2 In addition to Buletini, the Petitioner cites Muni v INS, 891 F Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995),Racine v. INS, 995 U.S. Dist. 
LEXIS 4336, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965 (N.D. Ill. 1996), Russell v. 
INS,2001 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 52 (E.D. Ill. Jan.4,200l)andGu/en v. Chernoff, l 980U.S. Dist. LEXIS 54607 (E.D. Pa. Jul 
16, 2008), noting that "[h]adAAO in this case incorporated the correct analysis from cases that preceded Kazarian, AAO 
would be bound to conclude that the Petitioner ... has met the 'preponderance of the evidence' standard." As discussed 
in this decision, we are not bound to follow the published decisions ofa district court. 
4 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of his prior motion to reconsider. The motion to 
reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 15745430 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 21, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously held lecturer positions at the University of I I and c:==J 
International University of Science and Technology I I. Since 2018, he has worked ate=] 
c=Juniversity I [ under a contract as a "Temporary Faculty Member." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner initially claimed a one-time achievement, in the form of a plaque from ~I-~ 
recognizing his contributions to organizing a conference there. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not establish that a recognition plaque from his employer is a major, internationally 
recognized award. The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion or pursue this claim on 
appeal, and therefore we consider this issue to be waived. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, numbered (iv), (vi), and (viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets two other criteria, numbered (ii) and (v). The Petitioner 
does not dispute the Director's conclusions regarding the criteria numbered (i), (iii), and (ix), and 
therefore we consider the Petitioner to have waived those claims. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
numbered (iv) and (vi). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion, but we disagree. 
Initially, the Petitioner stated that he "has played a leadership and critical role in several tertiary 
institutions," which is not the regulatory standard. No institution of any kind is presumed to have a 
distinguished reputation simply because of the type of institution that it is. The burden is on the Petitioner 
to submit evidence to establish that reputation. 
The Petitioner states that he "taught several courses" at universities inl I and the United States. 
Universities, however, employ many teachers at several organizational levels, even relying on graduate 
students to teach some undergraduate courses. The Petitioner does not establish that his roles, in 
particular, were leading or critical. We note that the Petitioner does not establish that he has held a high 
rank, such as the leader of an academic department. Rather, he was an exchange scholar at the University I ~nd a lecturer at the other universities, including at ~ where he currently works under a 
short-term contract. 
The Petitioner also points to his work with numerous professional institutions and societies, the most 
prominent of which appears to be his role as international coordinator of the I I I I He has served other organizations in roles he describes 
as "workshop coordinator," "regular international speaker," and "conference coordinator." Some of these 
roles appear to be incidental rather than leading or critical at the organizational level. Furthermore, 
regarding his most significant roles, the Petitioner did not identify any supporting evidence to establish 
that the organizations or establishments have distinguished reputations in comparison to other entities of 
the same type. Reputation, defined as "a place in public esteem or regard," or "overall quality or character 
as seen or judged by people in general," is a function of "recognition by other people" rather than self­
description. 2 As a result, the Petitioner cannot establish an organization's distinguished reputation by 
submitting statements and promotional materials from within that organization. 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
2 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/reputation (last visited Apr. 5, 2021). 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims six qualifying memberships: 
• American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE); 
• Botswana Engineers Registration Board (ERB); 
• South African Institute of Civil Engineers (SAICE); 
• Botswana Institution of Engineers (BIE); 
• Counsel for Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN); and 
• Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE). 
Two of the named entities (ERB and COREN) are not associations. Rather, they are registration boards. 
As such, the Petitioner does not hold memberships in these organizations. Rather, he holds professional 
credentials issued by those boards. 
Copies of certificates document the Petitioner's membership in the ASCE, SAICE, BIE, and NSE, but 
these certificates do not establish the associations' membership requirements. The Petitioner has not 
submitted any information about the membership requirements for the BIE or NSE. 
The Petitioner listed the membership requirements for the ASCE and SAICE, and identified the online 
sources for this information. ASCE membership requires various combinations of academic degrees, 
experience, and licensure, or membership in another engineering society that has a reciprocal agreement 
with the ASCE. Associate membership in the SAICE requires either a graduate degree in civil 
engineering or "status in a profession which is comparable to that of a Member of the Institution." The 
Petitioner does not explain how these qualifications amount to outstanding achievements, nor does the 
Petitioner demonstrate that recognized national or international experts judge candidates for membership. 
The Petitioner has not established that his memberships satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
I faculty members state that the Petitioner's doctoral research Jed to I 7 
.__ ______ __,~' and other "innovative tools" used to maintain the 'I ~ 
Botswana, and that this work "has drawn attention in academic circles" and "is used to bridge the gap 
created by experimental limitations." The Petitioner does not submit first-hand evidence to show the 
extent of the model's implementation, and the extent of its impact on thel I 
Another I ~acuity member states that the Petitioner "directed and supervised more than ten senior 
research [projects] that addressed and proffer solutions to critical challenges in the transportation sector. 
The findings from these research projects have been recommended for implementation in the 
transportation industry in the United States of America." The letter includes no details about the projects, 
the challenges they address, or the solutions they propose. There is no evidence that the industry has 
4 
actually adopted the recommendations. Also, the projects in question were apparently student projects 
that the Petitioner supervised in his teaching role, rather than his own contributions. 
After the Director requested evidence to show that the Petitioner's contributions have had an impact 
beyond benefit to his employers, the Petitioner submitted additional letters. facul member 
asserts that the Petitioner "made several important, new recommendations to existin _,_ _____ __. 
standards and maintenance manuals," which "are being implemented in developing countries." This 
general assertion does not directly document the extent of the Petitioner's influence on his field. 
ro · ect of the Petitioner's that received special attention is the first 
eve t-t,,....,...'T,"TI.''t,\~~"1':cC::::.:o~n~fi~e:!.:re~n~c::!:'e:....:o~nc!. 
Transportation he organized and designed to advance knowledge as well as .... I ______ _.I The official also states: "Another 
networking." The record shows that the conference took place, but the major significance of the event is 
not self-evident. The conference was not a standalone event; it coincided with theD International 
Conference on Transportation, held ate=] in 2019. The record does not show "special attention" to 
the conference beyond its attendees. 
A former dean at .... l __ _.I who recruited the Petitioner for a lecturer position there, states: 
[The Petitioner's] work that I am most familiar with, and that has drawn widespread 
attention in academic and industry circles, involves optimizing the maintenance of 
I using a predictive model he developed taking into account weather 
.._c_o_n_d-it-i-on-s-,'l --~-,1 capacity, previous maintenance history and quality of materials 
used. His original research also defined a new innovative approach that used a common 
set of parameters and consistent methods to collect 
and record condition data .... I I an<ll I I O ,I have adopted his recommendations 
and are implementing them .... 
His models were also used in the academics and ublished b the 
. . . His models are also used in India and Spain respectively to.__ _____ ____. 
performance index for rating o~ I 
The letter quoted above does not cite or identify sources for these claims, and the individual who wrote 
the quoted letter has not established his authority to speak on behalf of those organizations. 
First-hand corroboration from the named entities is necessary to establish the nature and extent of their 
reliance on the Petitioner's work. An emeritus member of the~-------------~ 
states that he has "been associated with [the Petitioner] since 2015," but does not indicate how, or to what 
extent, the~ has relied on the Petitioner's work. Instead, he offers the general assertions that the 
Petitioner "is highly regarded by his peers" and that "[h ]is professional advice and recommendations are 
highly respected." 
To establish his influence on the fiel~etitioner submits copies of published articles and unpublished 
student theses that cite his work. ArL__Jfaculty member stated that the Petitioner's published work is 
5 
"widely cited" by researchers in five countries. A Google Scholar printout in the record shows that none 
of the Petitioner's publications has been cited more than three times. These figures do not indicate that 
the Petitioner's published work has been particularly influential in the field. 
The submitted citations of the Petitioner's work do not establish the significance of that work or 
demonstrate its widespread implementation as claimed. In some instances, the Petitioner submits only 
the bibliographies from the citing articles, which provide no context for the citations. Other citations 
simply describe the Petitioner's methods or list figures from his research. One of the submitted citations 
relates to a general statement about the economic importance of local innovation. Another citation is a 
self-citation by the Petitioner. Self-citation is an accepted practice because researchers often build upon 
their own past work, but it is not evidence of wider influence. 
While some of the submitted letters indicate that the Petitioner's work has been widely influential, the 
record does not sufficiently corroborate these largely general claims. The Petitioner has not established 
that his original contributions are of major significance in the field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Although we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets at least three of the 
underlying regulatory criteria, we will nevertheless briefly discuss the final merits determination because 
it was part of the Director's decision. The purpose of a final merits determination is to evaluate whether 
a petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he or she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
The Director concluded that "[t]he petitioner's overall track record does not measure up to those of 
leading figures in the field." The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's publication of scholarly articles; 
his peer review of articles by others; and his activity as a judge of the work of graduate students working 
under his supervision. The Director determined, however, that this scholarly activity appears to be routine 
in the Petitioner's field. The Director stated that the Petitioner did not show how his authorship and peer 
review work distinguish the Petitioner in the field. 
We noted, above, the minimal citation of the Petitioner's published work. In the context of the final 
merits determination, it is also significant that the most recent article to have any citations appeared in 
2015. This indicates that the Petitioner's more recent work has attracted even less attention, which is 
significant with regard to the issue of sustained acclaim. 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
6 
With respect to the Petitioner's review of graduate student work, the Petitioner has not established how 
this activity distinguishes him from other university-level faculty. 
The Director stated that the Petitioner has not shown that his various university positions "resulted from 
or led to sustained national or international acclaim, or that these roles are indicative of a career of 
acclaimed work in the field." The record does not indicate thatc=J recruited the Petitioner based on his 
wider reputation in the field. Rather, the0official who recommended the Petitioner's hiring states 
that he has known the Petitioner for 20 years, since they were both students. That same official asserts 
that the Petitioner's "continued work in the field would be of tremendous benefit to the United States and 
his services will be in high demand," but the only evidence of demand for the Petitioner's services in the 
United States isDs one-year contract to employ the Petitioner as a "Temporary Faculty Member." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give enough weight and consideration to the 
evidence, particulaty le1ers describing the significance of the Petitioner's achievements. Those letters 
are primarily from faculty members and others who have worked directly with the Petitioner in 
various capacities. Their proximity to the Petitioner puts them in a position to provide details about the 
Petitioner's involvement in various projects, but their opinions about the Petitioner's work do not 
demonstrate sustained acclaim at the national or international level that this highly restrictive immigrant 
classification requires. A number of the letters contain general assertions about the Petitioner's standing 
in his field, but the record lacks consistent, objective evidence to support these claims. 
The Petitioner has been internationally active in his field, organizing conferences, chairing committees, 
and performing other work outside of his university faculty positions, but the evidence of record does not 
show that this activity either resulted in, or resulted from, sustained national or international acclaim as 
an individual at the very top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The record does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for 
individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14442636 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 21, 2021 
The Petitioner, a computer hardware and software development company, seeks classification of the 
Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
had established that the Beneficiary satisfied the initial evidence requirements, he did not demonstrate 
his eligibility for the classification. The Director determined that the record, as a whole, did not 
establish the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim or confirm that he was among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination and maintains that the Beneficiary 
qualifies for the classification . 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is a 
major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including 
items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner! a computer hardware and software development company, seeks classification of the 
Beneficiary, a I engineer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. As the record 
does not establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, the 
Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles, his performance 
in a leading or critical role, and his receipt of a salary that is high in comparison to others in his field. 
We agree with the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled those criteria. 
Since the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary fulfills at least three criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
2 
asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the evidentiary criterion related to original contributions of 
major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . However, because the Petitioner has already 
established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, we will consider this 
evidence along with the totality of the record in the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite initial evidence, we will 
evaluate whether it has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he 
has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility . 
As a preliminary matter, we will address the Petitioner's claim that the Director's decision improperly 
considered evidence in the record regarding the Beneficiary's accomplishments -specifically, that in 
the final merits analysis the Director "only considers each criteria in a vacuum, instead of a whole." 
The Petitioner asserts that the Director misapplied Kazarian, arguing that the Director erroneously 
"reviewed each piece of evidence in isolation and was looking for each category of evidence to 
demonstrate international acclaim." Within the final merits analysis, however, we note that the 
Director's decision discussed the evidence relating to the Beneficiary's engineering contributions, 
publication record, salary, and the work rendered to his current and fonner employers , and explained 
why that evidence, as part of the entirety of the record, was insufficient to demonstrate the requisite 
sustained acclaim at the national or international level, or that the Beneficiary has risen to be one of 
the few at the very top of his field. Regardless of the Petitioner's concerns, we exercise de nova review 
of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 
2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in 
the initial decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved 
in the prior decision. 
The Beneficiary is ~ I testing engineer for the Petitioner. The rathat he received 
his bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering fromOUniversity i India in 2006, and 
his master's degree in mechanical engineering from the University in 2010. As 
mentioned above, he meets the criteria for scholarly articles, leading or critical role, and high salary. 
At issue is whether the record establishes that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of his field and that he has sustained national or international acclaim under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3) . 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 
Regarding the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles, the record reflects that the Beneficiary 
has authored six papers/articles in his area of expertise. We note, however, that publication of a 
beneficiary's research alone does not place one at the very top of the field. The Petitioner emphasizes 
that the publication of the Beneficiary's papers and articles in peer-reviewed journals have been cited 
25 times, and that he has presented his findings at national conferences. The record does not show 
that conference presentation is a privilege reserved for those at the very top of the field. Nor has the 
Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary's publication record is consistent with having a "career 
of acclaimed work." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the 
work of scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the 
Beneficiary's papers and articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his 
work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous 
independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his 
work has been recognized and that other researchers have been influenced by it. Such an analysis at 
the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
The Petitioner submitted the Beneficiary's Google Scholar citation history, reflecting 25 cumulative 
citations to four publications authored by him between 2008 and 2015. Specifically, the record shows 
that his highest cited article, published in Structural Dynamics, received 16 citations, with the 
remaining articles receiving four, three, and two citations, respectively . The remaining two articles 
authored by him in 2010 and 2015 garnered no citations. The Petitioner also notes that the total 
citations include independent citations from ten countries, which it claims establishes the Beneficiary's 
international recognition in the field. While the citations show that the field has noticed his work, he 
did not establish that such rates of citation are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim in his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that the citations to the Beneficiary's research 
represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition to submitting evidence related to his publications, the Petitioner provided letters from four 
individuals it claims are "renowned experts" who have weighed in on the importance of the 
Beneficiary's research and methodologies, and asserts that the Director should have given more weight 
to letters from various individuals in the Petitioner's field.2 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory opinions statements from universities, professional 
organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 
I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding a foreign national 's eligibility. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. The Petitioner's selection of 
individuals who are familiar with the Beneficiary's work does not necessarily demonstrate that his 
work is sufficiently well known so as to be consistent with national or international acclaim. 
The letters submitted appear to be from former colleagues and other engineers regarding the 
Beneficiary's contributions in the field. While these letters discuss his contributions to certain 
projects, showing how highly regarded he is among those who have worked with him, this evidence 
does not establish that he has national or international acclaim in the field. For example,! I 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
I I Senior Technical Advisor/Director forl la client of the Beneficiary's former 
employer, discusses the Beneficiary's work on a pro/· ect related to the development of the I ~ I I of I I engines. According tol . the Beneficiary and his team were tasked with 
developing a solution to remedy.__ _____ __, in engine test cells, noting that the Beneficiary 
conducted structural testing and developed a methodology that solved the "critical restraints" that were 
hindering its testing efforts and potentially damaging its testing facility. I I concludes that 
without the Beneficiar 's contributions, the continued development ofthel . t engines, 
used in the indust , would have been delayed and potentially catastrophic. I I I I Director of.__ _______ ___,, states that he previously supervised the Beneficiary 
during the Beneficiary's employment with the company in the position of I I 
engineer. 3 I I states that the Beneficiary and his team conducted structural analysis for 
various power plants during his tenure with the company, noting that his work led to the identification 
of the root-cause of various within th;,,........i..!.Ll.l.LI..I.IJ~:l..LLILl<.U.....ld..lJ.l..lJ~.L...J.u,•eir continued 
operation. l....,....-___,,,,....-r-----1--__J retired Space Shuttle S stems and 
Safety Engineer for notes that the Beneficiary's paper entitled 
presented at the .__ _____ _. 
'----~ Conference and Exhibition in 2015, addressed a critical gap in the engineering work flow, 
and was the first of its kind to discuss the complexities of the engine test cell. He further states that 
the paper is "a valuable reference," and that the Beneficiary "will undoubtedly continµe to produce 
significant work that will influence other researchers in academia and industry." Finally,L I I l Research Engineer (2008-2019) fo~ I 
in Denmark, discusses his collaboration with the Beneficiary on various projects in the field of 
structural dynamics, noting that he mentored the Beneficiary during his master's level studies. 
According td I he co-authored three papers with the Beneficiary, which formed a major 
part of the Beneficiary's master's degree thesis work at the University I I and "laid the 
foundation for his career." I I concludes that these papers validated his own doctoral 
research work, and notes that the Beneficiary has "consistently been making groundbreaking finds in 
his field." 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's publications and contributions to his field demonstrates 
that he is an accomplished mechanical engineer, specializing in the field ofl I 
engineering, who garnered a level of recognition in the private sector for implementation of 
appropriate solutions to remedy structural I I issues for various clients. While the letters 
summarize and praise the Beneficiary's research and original contributions, the authors do not explain 
how the Beneficiary's research, contributions, and publications in this area have resulted in his being 
recognized as among the small percentage of similar engineers in his field who have achieved 
sustained national or international acclaim as evidenced through extensive documentation. While we 
acknowledge the Beneficiary's skillset in his industry, the record has not shown that he has received 
national or international acclaim for his work on these projects. The letters do not provide sufficient 
information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show 
that the Beneficiary is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 According to the Beneficiary's resume, he was employed by from February 2010 to July 2012. '--------~ 
5 
Further, although the Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary has made contributions of major 
significance in the field of engine test cells, it did not demonstrate that he has had remarkable influence 
in the overall field. While it appears that the Beneficiary's work in the private sector proved beneficial 
to the various clients for whom he rendered solutions, the record is devoid of evidence that such 
solutions and methodologies have been widely accepted and implemented beyond the individual client 
projects to which he was assigned during the course of his career. Although the recommendation 
letters summarize the Petitioner's research and findings, they do not sufficiently establish that his 
original contributions are already recognized as majorly significant, nor do they demonstrate that he 
is among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or that he has sustained national 
or international acclaim. For instance,! Is letter indicates that he co-authored three of the 
Beneficiary's six publications, and notes that these papers formed the basis of the Beneficia~ 
master's thesis while simultaneously validating I l's doctoral research findings. LJ I ~oes not address whether the Petitioner's findings have been utilized by other engineers or 
researchers in the field, and if so, the extent of their application. Further, his letter does not explain or 
justify how the Beneficiary's research in this area has resulted in his belonging, as he asserts, "to the 
special group of extraordinary researchers in the multidisciplinary field of structural dynamics." 
In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the or critical role in its 
organization or for his former employer, L....r-------,.._ _______ ____...1 has resulted in 
sustained national or i,,_u.<.1...U.~I.LLIJ~~""""""-LLLLo...l....----..,___J, a company principal and mechanical 
engineer specializing i '-------------~ states that the Beneficiary worked as Lead I I Engineer for the company from 2012 to 2015, during which time re worked OD more than 
20 projects at several major engine manufacturers across the United States. I states that 
the Beneficiary used his technical ex ertise "to develo a com rehensiv strategy for 
the company, termed as '-------------------~' which was "successfully 
implemented in several ongoing projects." As a result of this plan, and his work on various client 
projects during the course of his employment,! I states that the Beneficiary's efforts 
"resulted in reduced equipment failures at engine manufacturing facilities, thereby! savinf, hundreds of 
thousands of dollars in repairs and downtime for the clients and warranty costs for ' While these 
are notable accomplishments, the record does not show how these successes have resulted in national 
or international acclaim for the Beneficiary. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding his critical role with the Petitioner, the record reflects that the Beneficiary is currently 
employed in the position ofl I engineer. According to the Petitioner's U.S. 
Immigration ManagerJ I the Beneficiary applies his background in structural analysis 
and system integration to "com lete root cause analysis of structural issues across all [Petitioner] 
designed hardware." farther states that the Beneficia was one of the first hardware 
en ineers at the com an to ' 
________ ___,~--7----------.----.----~ and that his work has been used "year 
over year to improve th.__ __ _.performance of~_~devices and tune thd , l to provide 
an optimal user experience." She concludes by stating that the Beneficiary's "work on unreleased 
future projects and technology is critical in the development phase of these new products." Again, 
while the Beneficiary's contributions are noteworthy and undoubtedly are beneficial to the Petitioner's 
operations, the record does not show how these accomplishments have resulted in national or 
international acclaim. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
6 
The Petitioner farther points to the Beneficiary's high salary in his field, and the signing bonus and 
restricted stock units it extended to him upon his hiring, noting that such compensation was awarded 
to him on "on the basis of his extraordinary ability and expertise." While a high salary may 
demonstrate some degree of recognition of his achievements in the field, the Petitioner has not 
submitted evidence showing that his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 
In summary, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
who are already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's academic, 
scholarly, research, and professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-P-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 22, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give proper consideration to the submitted 
evidence, and that the translation certificates it submitted were compliant with the regulations. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of V-P-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Satisfaction of at least three criteria, however, does not, in and of itself, establish eligibility for this 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011), aff'd, 683 F.3d. 
1030 (9th Cir. 2012); Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010) (holding that the "truth 
is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality" and that U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) examines "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, 
and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine 
whether the fact to be proven is probably true"). Accordingly, where a petitioner submits qualifying 
evidence under at least three criteria, we will determine whether the totality of the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(b)(3) states the following regarding the translation of 
foreign-language documents: 
(3) Translations. Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall 
be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified 
as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent 
to translate from the foreign language into English. 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets eight of the ten 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find the she has not met the 
requisite three criteria, which will be explained in detail below. 
The Director's decision primarily focused on the lack of proper certifications which accompanied the 
English translations of much of the evidence in the record. The Petitioner 's original submission 
included several documents submitted in support of several of the evidentiary criteria, such as letters, 
published articles and related information , followed by translations which include a seal which states 
"Official Translator " as well as a signature. In addition, an attestation from an Albanian notary 
followed some of these translations and contained the following statement: 
Today, on 03 August 2016 I, the undersigned notary [notary's name] with the premises 
m declare that the translation of the attached document from Albanian into 
2 
.
Matter of V-P-
English from the English translator [translator's name] is the best of my knowledge and 
belief a true and a faithful rendering of the original language, and I the Notary certify 
it pursuant the law. 
In his request for evidence (RFE) to the Petitioner, the Director explicitly stated that the translations 
were not compliant with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(b)(3), since they do not include a 
certification from the translator that the translations are "complete and accurate" and that he or she "is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English." The Petitioner's response to the 
Director's RFE included the same translations, but with the notary's seal removed or hidden, 
accompanied by a certification from her representative in which he claims to be the author of the 
translations. Because neither the initially submitted certifications nor those submitted in response to 
the RFE were completed by the translator of the documents in Albanian, these translations are not 
compliant with the regulatory requirements. However, we will review the content of these translations 
and note any further evidentiary deficiencies in our analysis below. 
Other English translations, primarily of reference letters, include a signed stamp with the following 
statement: 
The undersigned being duly conversant in both English and Albanian languages hereby 
certify that the above is a direct translation of the statement. 
These certifications are substantially compliant with the requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(b)(3), and will therefore be considered as evidence in support of the relevant 
evidentiary criteria below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204. 5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to her receipt of the following awards: 
• First Prize, 2011 
• Best Female Interpretation, 2005 4111 Edition 
• Summer Hits 2016, 
• Public Prize, 
• Honor of the Union, 
2016 
• Certificate of Gratitude , 2014, 
• Certificate of Gratitude , 2016, 
Regarding the First Prize at the we note that the evidence consists 
of a printed certificate with the Petitioner 's name handwritten in below which is a blank line 
after the words "For the song." These deficiencies in the evidence decrease its probative value. In 
3 
.
Matter of V-P-
addition, the website information which accompanies this certificate relates to a different music 
festival, the which takes place in Bulgaria, not 
Macedonia as the certificate indicates. Other evidence relating to this evidence includes an 
interview of the Petitioner posted on a blog, http://albavipnews.blogspot.com, in which she mentions 
her participation in the in 2011 but does not mention an award, and a 
biography and a gossip news article, neither of which list an author. Given the incompleteness of the 
award certificate and the lack of verifiable supporting documentation, this evidence does not establish 
that the Petitioner received the prize or award claimed. 
Turning to the second listed certificate, the term "best female interpretation" does not clearly indicate 
whether this was a top prize at the festival, nor does the supporting evidence submitted with the 
certificate clarify this.1 An article posted on the same blog mentioned above discusses the 2013 
version of the television show, but mentions only the top prize received in that 12th 
edition, and thus does not serve to show that the prize received by the Petitioner was nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The next two certificates, for "Summer Hits 2016" and the 
, also do not indicate whether they were given as top prizes in competitions, as the 
record does not include evidence of the criteria for these awards. In addition, the YouTube and 
Facebook screenprints relating to the Summer Hits 2016 certificate do not provide information about 
the award sufficient to establish that they are nationally or internationally recognized. 
The last three certificates listed above indicate that they were given to the Petitioner for her 
participation in several festivals and other events, not only as a singer but also as a presenter and 
coordinator. This evidence does not establish that they were awarded to the Petitioner for excellence 
as a smger. 
Upon review, while the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner received some of the listed awards, 
this evidence does not show that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized. Therefore 
the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that she is a member of described as an artistic 
cultural association. The evidence includes articles which describe the activities of the association , as 
well as a letter from the head of in which she states that the 
Petitioner "has been invited to participate in international and national festivals" because of her 
"extraordinary contributions. " However, ___ does not provide details about the association 's 
1 We further note that one of the articles submitted in support of this certificate, from a blog named "ALBA VIP 
Thashetheme," includes an English translation preceded by the phrase "translated by google." As indicated in the 
Director's decision, such translations, vvithout certification from a translator, do not meet the requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(3). 
4 
.
Matter of V-P-
membership requirements, nor does the evidence include its bylaws or other governing rules which 
might state its membership requirements, or how and by whom applicants are judged. 
Also submitted was a letter from General Secretary of the 
who confirms that the Petitioner joined this group in 2017. 
does not describe any membership requirements for and an article in the record from the 
New York Daily News states that where it used to be a political organization, it is now "more of a social 
organization." The Petitioner has therefore not established that is an association for singers 
or others in the music industry, or that it requires outstanding achievements of its members. As such, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Several articles were submitted from Albanian newspapers and magazines, including Telegraf, Vajza 
e Dites, and Femra Moderne. In addition to the deficiencies in the translation certifications noted 
above, we note that some of these articles are incomplete, or do not contain the required date, author 
and/or publication information. For example, an article claimed to have been published in Telegraf 
on 2008 is missing the date and author of the material, and the original is not complete. In 
addition, some of the articles which are about the Petitioner do not relate to her work in the field but 
to personal matters such as her marital status, physical appearance and food preferences. An example 
of this is the article published in the 2006 edition of Femra Moderne, which consists of 60 
short questions and answers focusing entirely on the Petitioner's personal life versus her career as a 
smger. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not established that those articles in the record which are, at least in part, 
about her and her work as a singer were published in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. The Petitioner submitted a letter from Avni Elezi, administrator of Vajza e Dites 
magazine, which states that it has a circulation of 2000, has been publishing since 2004, and is 
distributed throughout Albania. However, it did not provide comparative data to establish that when 
compared to the circulation of other publications in Albania, this magazine can be considered to 
qualify as major media. Regarding the newspaper Telegraf, the Petitioner submitted a copy of its 
webpage which indicates that it is available for sale throughout Albania, as well as a printout titled 
"telegraf.al Traffic Statistics" which indicates that the website was ranked 610th in terms of traffic 
among websites frequented by Albanians. However , the record does not include information about 
the websites of other Albanian publications to which this figure could be compared to determine if it 
qualifies as "major media." Also, the record includes a copy of the Facebook page for FemraModern e 
which indicates that it has more than 25,000 followers. As with the evidence regarding the other 
publications , this raw number is insufficient to demonstrate , by itself, that this magazine qualifies as 
"major media" as required by the plain language of this criterion. Therefore , the evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
5 
.
Matter of V-P-
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the President and Producer of the event, "where 
compete the most beautiful girls of the north Albania," who indicate that she was selected as 
chairwoman of the jury for the third edition of the event. The letter further states that the Petitioner 
was selected "so she can properly evaluate the most beautiful northern girl." This letter does not 
indicate that the contestants who were judged by the Petitioner and the rest of the jury were singers or 
worked in an allied field of specialization, or that they were judged on their work as singers. As such, 
we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner does not identify a specific original artistic contribution that she has made, but instead 
refers to evidence of her music contract and letters from others in the music industry. She refers to 
evidence of a contract with a company called which consists of a letter from the co­
owner of this company which states that she has "a management contract with our firm, for a 
unspecified time frame, valued at: 500,000 (50,000 new money),"2 but does not explain why her 
representation by a management company should be considered to be a contribution to the music 
industry. In addition, the reference letters submitted in support of this criterion discuss various aspects 
of the Petitioner's singing career, but do not provide specific information regarding her original 
contributions to the field of music or the music industry. )fthe 13th district 
of New York, states that the Petitioner has performed in his community at an international 
music festival, and opines that she has "made outstanding contributions to the field of music," but does 
not elaborate on what those contributions were. Similarly, an Albanian singer and 
songwriter, describes how he met and collaborated with the Petitioner, and describes her skills and 
talent as a performer, but does not identify a contribution she has made to the field. Also, 
a composer who has worked with the Petitioner, describes their past and continuing 
collaboration and states that she has "a good image for the public" and "brings new trends and 
positivity." While this evidence serves to verify the Petitioner 's work as a singer, it does not establish 
that she has made original contributions that have influenced other singers or otherwise been of major 
significance to the field. Therefore , it does not demonstrate that she meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
2 We note that in addition to the deficiencies with all of the English translations noted earlier, the translation of the letter 
from adds text which is not in the original document. It cannot therefore be accepted as a complete and 
accurate translation from Albanian into English. 
.
Matter of V-P-
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204. 5(h)(3)(viii) 
In support of her assertion that she has played a critical role for establishments in Albania, the 
Petitioner refers to letters which verify her work with and 
television. Vice Director of states that she is a "regular collaborator" and 
"is a participant" in many programs, including and However, this letter 
does not specify the Petitioner's role in these programs, nor does it indicate that her participation was 
critical to any success they may have enjoyed. Similarly, a letter from verifies the 
Petitioner's title and salary at , but does not provide details about her employment or indicate 
that she played a critical role for the establishment as a whole. Accordingly, this evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The record includes the following evidence regarding the Petitioner's earnings: 
• Letter from of stating that the Petitioner works as a 
musical producer from 2001 to 2016, earning 1,000 euros per month 
• Letter from of stating that the Petitioner "has a 
management contract with our firm, for a unspecified time frame, valued at: 500,000 (50,000 
new money.)" 
• Webpage article that mentions that some producers are singers. 
• Webpage article from www.paylab.com indicating that the average salary in Albania is 53,950 
ALL. The Petitioner highlights an entry under "Arts & Culture" which indicates a salary of 
913,232 ALL. 
• Article dated April 5, 2015 from Independent Balkan News Agency stating that the average 
monthly salary in Albania is 45,539 ALL, or 330 euros. 
We first note that despite the Director's specific request in his RFE, the Petitioner did not submit 
verifiable evidence in support of these letters, such as Forms W-2 or foreign tax documentation of her 
salary. Although the Petitioner claimed that "there are no W-2 or taxes in 
Albania," she did not submit evidence in support of this statement, nor did she submit other evidence 
of her salary, such as copies of pay receipts or bank statements. The submitted evidence is insufficient 
to establish the amount of the Petitioner's salary. In addition, we note that the evidence regarding 
salaries in Albania does not provide data regarding the salaries of other singers in Albania, and thus 
does not provide a basis of comparison which would allow us to determine that the Petitione r's salary 
is high. Therefore, the Petitione r has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercia l successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
Matter of V-P-
In support of her qualification under this criterion, the Petitioner once again refers to the letter from 
of which as previously mentioned has not been properly translated. 
Also, we note that the value of a management contract, even if supported by verifiable evidence, is 
not one of the types of evidence specified in the plain language of the criterion. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence in the form of Y ouTube screenshots of her music videos, 
showing the number of times they had been viewed. We will initially note that the Petitioner's claim 
that several of the videos have "over 2.4 million subscribers" is not accurate, as that number relates to 
the Y ouTube channel There is no indication in the record that this number of 
subscribers can be attributed solely to the Petitioner. More importantly, the Petitioner has not 
established that the number of views of her videos is evidence of commercial success similar to box 
office receipts, or compact disk or video sales, since this evidence does not demonstrate the monetary 
value of these views or otherwise set a basis for determining commercial success. Similarly, while 
the Petitioner submitted evidence that her music is available on digital streaming services such as 
Spotify and Soundcloud, and that some of her songs have been streamed or downloaded thousands of 
times over the course of several years, this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that she has 
achieved commercial success. Accordingly, it does not establish that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner received a major, internationally recognized award 
or meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits 
analysis determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in its entirety, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. For these 
reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-P-, ID# 2794783 (AAO Apr. 22, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-K-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 23, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SER VICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an architectural designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U. S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, her evidence 
provided under the judging criterion was not consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that the Director did 
not properly evaluate her evidence in the final merits determination. 
Upon de nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further action and consideration. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter of S-K-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met the judging, display, and leading or 
critical role criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vii), and (viii), respectively. However, after 
determining that the Petitioner met these initial evidence requirements, the Director mentioned and 
discussed only the documentation the Petitioner submitted for the judging criterion in the final merits 
determination. 
In addition to solely focusing on the evidence provided for the judging criterion, the Director's final 
merits assessment is problematic because it offered contradictory findings, analyses that do not appear 
relevant to the facts of this case, and unsubstantiated conclusions. For example, while the Director 
correctly noted that the Petitioner had "submitted evidence" showing that she was "part of an eleven 
member panel in competition to judge architectural design proposals ," the decision 
then contradicted this statement , indicating : "There is no evidence demonstrating that the petitioner 
actually judged the work of competitors such as assigning points or determining winners, rather than 
merely enforcing the rules and maintaining a fair sense of play. The absence of evidence of the 
beneficiary 's participation ... is a significant omission from the record."1 We note that this type of 
analysis relates to whether the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) rather than whether the submitted documentation contributes to a finding that the 
1 The phrase "enforcing the rules and maintaining a fair sense of play" appears more relevant to an athletic competition 
than an architectural design contest. 
2 
Matter of S-K-
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Furthermore, although the Director later 
stated that the record lacked "substantive evidence" of the Petitioner's "participation as a judge of the 
work of others ... that is consistent with sustained national or international acclaim," the decision's 
final merits discussion did not explain this conclusion. 
Here, the Director's final merits assessment did not properly consider the totality of the evidence. The 
Director only referenced the judging criterion and did not discuss the documentation relating to the 
other two criteria she found the Petitioner met, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii), as well as the 
other evidence in the record. Accordingly, we are remanding for the Director to consider the totality 
of the material provided and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d at 1115; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
131-32; Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d at 1339.2 If the Director determines that the Petitioner has 
not satisfied these requirements, the Director should issue a new decision, containing sufficient 
analysis to afford the Petitioner the opportunity to present a meaningful appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We are remanding the petition for the Director to determine if the Petitioner has demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim and that she is among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field of endeavor. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball 
Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for further 
proceedings consistent with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision 
which, if adverse, shall be certified to us for review. 
Cite as Matter ofS-K-, ID# 2794551 (AAO Apr. 23, 2019) 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that "USC IS officers should evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to make a final merits determination of whether or not the 
petitioner, by a preponderance of the evidence, has demonstrated that the alien has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the alien is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor"). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6197943 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a religious faith writer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a qualifying one-time achievement, or that he met at least three of the 
ten alternative evidentiary criteria, as required for this classification . The Director further determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence, asserts that the Director mischaracterized 
previously submitted evidence, and maintains that he is qualified for the benefit sought. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director's determination 
and will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated on the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, that he is a "religious 
faith writer." Where asked to provide information about his proposed employment, he indicated that 
he intends to "continue research & writing concerning issues of faith, man's spiritual beliefs and 
impacts on persons with disabilities." On appeal, he claims that his area of extraordinary ability is 
"charitable and humanitarian works" and that his writings are part of his overall mission to serve those 
with mental and physical disabilities. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The Petitioner states that he is the 
recipient of the I I medal and that this honor is a qualifying one-time 
achievement. 
According to the submitted evidence regarding the ~I -~-------~l,_m_o_st_o_f _w_h_i_ch_w_a~s 
sourced from Wikipedia, 1 it is "an award conferred by thel I 
" As there are no assurances about the .__ _____________________ ___. 
reliability of the content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from Wikipedia will be 
accorded no evidentiary weight. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
1 Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (last visited April 21, 2020), https://en.wikipedia.org/ 
wiki/Wikipedia:General _ disclaimer. 
2 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner's I I medal was conferred by Pope 
I I and bestowed by the Archbishop of the j l Kenya in 1999. The record 
indicates that the Petitioner received the award based on his leadership in operting lhe I I I I School for children with mental and physical challenges, located in the district. The 
Petitioner notes that his award received media coverage from a Kenyan newspaper and emphasizes 
that other recipients have included Mother Teresa "and others who have been similarly extraordinary 
in their ability to engage in chartable and humanitarian works." The Petitioner previous!] submitted 
a screenshot of Wikipedia' s incomplete list of recipients of the ] as well as 
Wikipedia biography pages for select prior recipients. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. 
The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be 
a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel Laureates, 
the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the 
nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash 
prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
Here, the Petitioner did not present evidence demonstrating that thd I awards 
are covered by international media, are recognized by the general public, or gamer attention 
comparable to other major, globally recognized awards similar to the Nobel Prize. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to five of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and that he satisfied one of those criterion, relating to 
authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The record reflects that the Petitioner 
authored two booksJ I and I land provided sufficient e;°idence to establish ihe schol~rly nature ~o_f_h-is_p_u_b_l_ic-a-ti_o_n_s_--~ 
The Director determined, however, that the Petitioner did not satisfy the four remaining claimed 
criteria related to his receipt lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, published materials 
3 
about him, original contributions of major significance, and performance in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinct reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), 
(v), and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets the criteria relating to lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards and published material about him, which will be discussed below. 
The Petitioner does not contest the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the original 
contributions or leading or critical role criteria, and therefore we deem these issues to be waived. See, 
e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the 
Petitioner did not satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner claims that his .__ ________ __. medal, at a minimum, should be considered a 
lesser internationally recognized prize or award for excellence and contests the Director's 
determination that the award appears to be "local in nature." While it appears that thel I I I is an internationally recognized honor within the Roman Catholic community, bestowed 
on those of Catholic faith by the Pope, the record does not establish that it is awarded "for excellence" 
or that it is intended for those in the Petitioner's field of endeavor, or in any particular field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner provided ample evidence of his receipt of thd I but, as noted by 
the Director, there is little probative information in the record regarding the award or the criteria used 
for selection of recipients. The Petitioner provided the Wikipedia entry for the award and the Wikipedia 
biography pages for some prior recipients. For the reasons already discussed, information from 
Wikipedia can be accorded little, if any, evidentiary weight. Nevertheless, we note that the submitted 
Wikipedia biographies submitted do not support a finding that the award is given for excellence in the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor. For example, recipients have included an American businessman and 
sports franchise owner who received the award for "generosity to the Catholic Church" and a Filipino 
musician and composer who received the award for "his many contributions in the field of religious 
themed compositions and sacred works." Several of the biographical entries for previous winners simply 
mention that they received the award for "service to the Roman Catholic Church." 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single 
institution, for example. may have little national or international significance). 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a new letter, from Most Rev.I I current Archbishop of 
thd I who states that thel hs awarded by the Pope through 
a confidential consultative process and does not in any way involve the awardee until the evaluation 
process assessment." However, this statement does not provide sufficient insight into the process or 
criteria for bestowing the award to establish that it is prize or award for excellence in the Petitioner's field 
of endeavor. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because he did not submit 
evidence of published material that appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. The Petitioner provided the following evidence: 
• A captioned photograph ( credited to "Standard Correspondent") from an unidentified 
publication, indicatin that the Petitioner was conferred as a Catholic church elder after 
receiving the old medal. 
• An article titled from an unidentified ublication. 
'----------------------------' • An article titled 
unidentified publication. from an 
• A newspaper artic;.::.'le.:::....::ti:.::tl:.::.ed.::::......!:' ========::::;-------' dated._l -.----.-----'I l 996. 
• An article titled published in I I 2011 edition of 
American Ideals. 
• A review of the Petitioner's books by ~I _____ ~I that appeared on the website 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to 
meet this criterion. The article titled ~----------~~' is about the Petitioner but the 
submitted newspaper clipping does not identify the name of the publication in which it appeared or 
the date of publication. The article titled 'I I is also about the Petitioner 
and relates to his work, but the full name of the publication cannot be determined based on the 
submitted evidence. 
Regarding the article '----=--------------------____. we note that, apart 
from the title and a captioned photograph that identifies the Petitioner, the text of article is illegible 
and we cannot determine the title or date of the publication or the contents of the article to determine 
whether it is about the Petitioner and relates to his work. 
The article published by American Ideals is about the Petitioner; however, the record does not establish 
that this magazine, published by the non-profit organization American Ideals Foundation, Inc., is a 
qualifying publication. According to the magazine's editorial notes, American Ideals Foundation was 
established to "put the arts to use in honoring the sacrifices made by veterans and their families and 
enhancing the quality of life for young artists and children with special needs." It appears that the 
magazine is distributed to those who are dues-paying members of the foundation, but it is unclear 
5 
whether it has a wider audience. Based on the information provided, we cannot determine that 
American Ideals is a professional publication, major trade publication or other major media. 
We note that the submitted book review is not about the Petitioner and was not accompanied by 
evidence that the reviewer's personal website qualifies as a major trade publication, professional 
publication or other major media. Finally, we cannot determine that the captioned photograph, 
although it briefly mentions the Petitioner, is published material about him and his work. The clipping 
of the photograph does not identify the title or date of the publication. Further, it is unclear that the 
photograph accompanied an article, or whether the photograph alone appeared in the publication. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "[t]he newspaper in which article was published, The Standard ... 
has a 48% market share in Kenya with a circulation of 74,000" and qualifies as major media. 
However, we cannot determine to which newspaper article the Petitioner is referring. As discussed, 
the name of the publication did not appear on any of the submitted newspaper clippings. We note that 
the above-referenced photograph is credited to "Standard Correspondent." However, as discussed, a 
photograph of the Petitioner is not sufficient to meet this criterion and the photograph was not 
accompanied by an article or other required information such as the date of publication. Further, the 
circulation statistics cited by the Petitioner were obtained from The Standard's Wikipedia page ( a copy 
of which is also submitted on appeal). The Petitioner has therefore not submitted probative evidence 
demonstrating that The Standard qualifies as major media in Kenya based on its circulation relative to 
other publications. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence of published materials that meet 
all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether his entry would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States, as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(3) of the Act. See INS v. 
6 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8021856 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a copywriter , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has a qualifying one-time achievement , or, in the alternative, that he meets 
at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his assessment of the evidence and maintains 
that he is eligible to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was employed as a "Senior Copywriter/Creative" wit~ I in the United 
States at the time of filing in September 2018. The record reflects that he previously worked as a 
copywriter forOBrazil. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he has a qualifying one­
time achievement and therefore he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied only two of those criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he presented evidence that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, and, in the alternative, that he meets four of the ten alternate criteria, discussed below. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The Petitioner claims that he has 
received qualifying awards in the field of advertising from the.__ _____________ _. I I and the c=JAwards. We agree with the Director that the evidence does 
not establish the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, 
internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 
U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize 
as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, international recognition 
may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. The regulation is 
consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, 
internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel Laureates, the 
example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality 
of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While 
an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without 
2 
meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be 
global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top awards. 
With respect to thd I festival, the Petitioner submitted eight certificates that name him as 
a member oQBrazil teams that received "Finalist" recognition in various categories at the 2011, 
2012, and 2013 awards. However, the Petitioner did not submit evidence indicating that he received 
an award at any of thd !festivals. The record reflects that the top prize bestowed at the I I is the Grand Prix, while the festival also awards Goldi L SilverD and Bronze 
c=J. In addition, the record indicates that there is a "Shortlist" in each category that is below the 
Bronze award. The record does not contain evidence explaining the significance of the "Finalist" 
recognition, but it appears to be reserved for entries that did not meet the "Shortlist" threshold. 
Therefore, based on the documentation provided, the Petitioner did not establish that his "Finalist" 
certificates froml I are "awards," and therefore has not established that they are major, 
internationally recognized awards. 
With respect to thee=] A wards, the Petitioner provided a letter from I I Associate 
Director of Judging, who confirms that the Petitioner "has been recognized at our shows." The letter 
states that the Petitioner received a Bronze~ward in the "Design -Direct Mar1etinr category 
in 2013, as well as Shortlist mentions in 2012 and 2014. I !describes the Awards as 
"the world's most recognized international awards competition for advertising, design, digital and 
communications" across all medium types, and notes that award-winning entries "must be considered 
one of the best from more thr 101°00 entries." The Petitioner also submitted information from the 
OAwards website (www com), which describes it as "the esteemed international awards 
competition," and mentions the "GrandO" which is awarded in each category, as "the highest 
honor" bestowed. According to a submitted printout from theOAwards website, fewer than 20% 
of submissions within each media type survive the first two rounds of judging to be considered for a 
gold, silver, or bronze statue or a shortlist mention. 
While the Petitioner's Bronze c=J award is a notable professional achievement, the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires the one-time achievement to be "a major, intemational[ly] recognized 
award." The Petitioner did not present evidence, for example, establishing that the competition is 
widely reported by international media, is recognized by the general public, or gamers attention 
comparable to other major, globally recognized awards such as Academy Award winners. Nor is there 
supporting evidence showing that the recipients of BronzeOawards were announced in major 
media or in some other manner consistent with a major, internationally recognized award. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his receipt of a 2013 Bronzec=JA ward meets 
the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria: lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), and 
participation as a judge of the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to leading or critical 
roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation, and high salary. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three of 
the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying prizes 
or awards and explaining his determination. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that his prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or 
awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 For the reasons discussed 
below, we will withdraw the Director's determination that this criterion was met. 
In addition to the above-referenced recognitions from the .... l ____ ____.!festival andQ wards, the 
Petitioner submitted evidence of his receipt of the following: 
• ~ards: Silveri IAward • c==::J Festivals International Advertising Awards: one "Silver World Medal" and one 
"Finalist" recognition 
• I awards: "Award of Excellence" (two) 
• IAwards: one Merit Award 
• !Festival: one Gold award one Silver award, three Bronze awards 
• l one Silver award, two Bronze awards 
• I Awards: two "Silver" awards and four 
• 
• 
• "Anwfrio" awards 
: one Bronze A ward --------------,--~ Competition: selected as a member of Brazil's team at 2012 -----~--------' Festival 
-~w-o-rl-dw~ide: 1.....-'-'-'----,IAward 
The Petitioner has maintained that his most significant awards are from thel I festival and 
the0Awards. However, as discussed above, while thel !festival included participants 
from multiple nations, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's standing as a "finalist" demonstrates his receipt of a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in his field. The record reflects that the awards given by 
1 The Petitioner does not claim to meet any of the regulatory criteria not discussed in this decision. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www. uscis. gov /legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 Id. 
4 
.__ ___ ____.I include Grand Prix, Gold, Silver, and BronzeD The Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that he received any of these awards, nor did he demonstrate the significance of being recognized as a 
"finalist." 
While the record includes information about the DA wards from its website and online industry 
publications identifying "Grand~' winners as those receiyng 'l'the biggest prize," the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that his receipt of the aforementioned Bronze award is a nationally or 
internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. There are multiple gold, silver, 
and bronze winners in each Bcategory and hundreds of award winners overall. 4 It has not been 
established, for example, that Bronze awards are acknowledged anywhere but on the DA wards 
website. The issue here is not the national or international scope of the competition, but rather whether 
the Petitioner's specific awards are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field. Here, the Petitioner did not show that an award several levels below the top 
category is indicative of a nationally or internationally recognized award "for excellence" in the field 
of endeavor. As noted, the number of awardees or prize recipients is a relevant consideration when 
evaluating whether a given award meets this criterion. 5 
As it relates to the I I A wards, the Petitioner provided a press release from the awards website 
announcing the winners of the 2017 awards. According to this information, the I I Award is the 
only award that recognizes "excellence in financial advertising and markJting ol a global scale." The 
submitted press release, however, only mentions the winner of the "Gran ' award and the many 
winners of '1 I Gold Ingots." The Petitioner did not establish that the same level ofrecognition is 
associated with the Silver I I award that he received. Regarding the I I Festivals 
Advertising Awards, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from the organization's website announcing 
the winners of the 2018 Advertising Awards. According to the website, 'I I Festivals 
Advertising Awards are a simple way of telling clients and vendors that you are not interchangeable, 
that there is a standard of excellence." However, the record does not contain any information regarding 
the award categories, an overview of the different levels of awards or prizes bestowed, or an 
explanation of the selection criteria. With respect to the I I awards, the Petitioner 
submitted copies of his "Award of Excellence" certificates and a screenshot from the awarding entity's 
website which describes the juried competition as "the most influential" in visual communications, 
noting that the awards are "a valuable resource for potential clients and colleagues." 
While the information submitted suggests that these three competitions draw international competitors 
in the Petitioner's field, he did not provide independent evidence from a source other than the 
organizations themselves regarding the national or international recognition accorded to the awards 
they issue. Further, the limited information provided does not address the significance of the specific 
awards that the Petitioner received from these awarding entities, particularly his "Silver" award from 
thd._ _ ___,IAwards or "Silver Medal" froml ~estivals. Overall, the record reflects that there 
are several international competitions in the advertising field that claim to be the most distinguished 
or recognizable, all with many levels of awards, many award categories, and many winning teams 
4 Accordin7 to th
1□Awards website, there were 542 teams recognized as winners of Grance=) Gold□ Silver□ 
and Bronze statues in 2013. which included 240 Bronze winners. In the Petitioner's "Design-Direct Marketing" 
categoµ.........,there were two Gold awards, three Silver awards and four Bronze awards given. See 
https:/l__Jcom/awards/winners?2013=year (last visited on Apr. 21, 2020, copy included in record of proceeding). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
5 
within each category. The evidence does not demonstrate that a silver or bronze award from these 
types of competitions meets all requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) based on the large number 
of winners and evidence indicating that the winners of the "grand" prizes in these competitions are 
those who receive independent recognition outside of the awarding organization. 
A letter from I I for Creativity describes its 'I I' awards competition, noting 
that "to be selected for a Pencil is a great honor. "6 The Petitioner rovided similar testimonial evidence 
confirming his receipt of awards from described as "the most recognized 
festival in Latin America," and the.___ ..... award, described as "the most important awards organization 
in Advertising dedicated to Spanish and Portuguese language countries." The Petitioner did not submit 
independent evidence from a source other than the organizations themselves regarding the national or 
international recognition accorded to the awards they issue. While the record contains sufficient 
evidence to establish that the aforementioned competitions are national or international in scope, the 
issue here is not the scope of the competitions, but rather whether his specific awards are "nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field." 
With respect to the Petitioner's awards from the I I the letter from this 
organization's event coordinator indicates that the 'I I' is a nonprofit organization 
established "to enhance and preserve the creativity of Brazilian advertising." The letter states that the 
organization chooses the best advertising during the year from 2000 entries and edits the ads into a 
"Creative Yearbook." While it appears that the organization considers entries from throughout Brazil 
and is therefore nation in scope, the letter does not address the significance of the Petitioner's "Silver" 
and "Anuario" awards. 
The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot from wwwl lorg, regarding the 'I I I I award which "recognizes the vanguard of creative professionals 30 years of age and under." 
The Petitioner also submitted an overview of thel I from I I which describes it 
as a "portfolio-based competition" that is "one of the most coveted awards for young creatives around 
the globe." Neither document provides farther information regarding the national or international 
recognition afforded to the Bronze award the Petitioner received in the 2013 competition. The excerpt 
provided from the 20131 I winners and finalist list indicates that many bronze awards were 
given, including multiple awards within single categories. The Petitioner has not established the 
national or international significance of this age-restricted competition, which was not open to more 
seasoned or experienced professionals in his field. 
As it relates to hisl IA ward, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from the website otO 
Worldwide which indicates that this is a company-specific award for which only employees of the 
I IGroup are eligible. The Petitioner did not provide evidence that this was a nationally or 
internationally recognized award or that it is recognized outside the awarding company. 
Finally, with respect to the 2012.__ _________ __. Competition, the Petitioner provided 
evidence that he was one of two young advertising professionals selected to represent Brazil at the 
competition. He did not provide evidence that the team representing Brazil received an award or prize 
6 As noted, the record reflects that the Petitioner received "Merit Awards" froml I rather than the "Pencil" 
award mentioned in the letter from the awarding entity. The letter did not address the significance of the "Merit Award." 
6 
at the competition. While it appears that appointment to the team was a significant achievement due 
to a competitive selection process, such selection does not satisfy the plain language of the regulation, 
which requires the Petitioner to demonstrate his receipt of a prize or award. 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's determination that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner met this criterion. The Petitioner 
provided evidence that he served as a judge for the "Cyber Category" of thel !Brazil 
ram in 2014. In addition, the record reflects that he served as a member of the jury for the 2016 
,...__ __ ___.'-'C;_r~eation Awards, and as a member of the jury for the 20101 !Festival I I 
'----------' sponsored by the Association of Advertising Professionals ofl I in Brazil. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 8 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he provided evidence of his leading or critical roles withD I l as well asl !Brazil an~ I With respect to I I we note 
that the record reflects that the Petitioner commenced employment with this company subsequent to 
filing the petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )( 1 ). Therefore, we will focus on whether the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion based on his employment in a leading or critical role with I I orOBrazil. 
We note that the Petitioner provided evidence to establish that these agencies enjoy a distinguished 
reputation in the advertising industry. 
The Petitioner provided letters from his colleagues at I lin support of this criterion. The 
letters, however, do not establish that he held a leading pos1t10n, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying the Petitioner's critical role to the company.9 For instance,! I a 
senior vice president with.__ __________ ~ states that she invited the Petitioner to 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Id. (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical 
role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
7 
participate in "a very important pitch for the a enc " and indicates that he "demonstrated to be an 
amazing creative and an authentic leader." who previously worked with the Petitioner 
during his time as a creative director with.__ ______ ____,, states that he "had the opportunity to 
lead [the Petitioner] in several projects." He identifies two of the Petitioner's campaigns for ligh-l 
profile clients, noting that each was "a huge success." Further.I I a creative director at I I, states that the Petitioner is "a professional that every manager wants to have on their 
team." I I explains ~etitioner was "the main head of creative" on a fundamental pitch 
made to a company called L___J and that his pitch ultimately secured the campaign from the client, 
"which meant $5 million more in revenue for the agency." For this reasonJ I states that the 
Petitioner played "a critical role not only on projects he led but for the agency as a whole." 
The Petitioner also submitted two letters from his former colleagues atl IBrazil. I I 
states that the Petitioner, as a senior copywriter with0 Brazil, "had a critical role with many clients, 
among them~----------1 l and others." I I explains that the 
Petitioner "was responsible for creating and developing campaigns and communication strategies for 
our clients" and notes "that is exactly what he did." He highlights several high-profile client 
campaigns in which the Petitioner played an "essential role," noting that they directly impacted the 
clients' success, which indirectly impactedc=JBrazil's reputation and its ability to win pitches. I I who worked with the Petitioner---;o Brazil, notes the Petitioner generated the "best 
ideas for our clients" and highlights his work on I I andl I projects. He 
states that both projects were very successful and would not have been possible without the Petitioner's 
leadership. 
Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's employment and praise his talents and successful 
performance of his assigned responsibilities, they do not reflect detailed, probative information 
demonstrating the specific nature and outcomes of his roles with the respective businesses. While the 
letters indicate that the Petitioner carried out creative responsibilities that contributed to winning 
business and creating successful advertising campaigns, they do not explain how the Petitioner's role 
as a copywriter was leading or critical to the overall outcome of bis emnl1yers' activities. On appeal, 
the Petitioner emphasizes the $5 million campaign referenced i~~--~ s letter, but the record does 
not contain evidence to place that figure in context, such that we can determine that this was considered 
a high-value campaign that significantly impacted I Is outcomes. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided: (1) a copy of his employment agreement withe=] 
I ldated September 2017; (2) copies of three pay statements from June and July 2018; 
and (3) comparative wage data from various sources. 
8 
The Petitioner's employment agreement indicates thatl lagreed to pay him a base annual 
salary of $200,000 for his services as a copywriter as of the date of the signed areement. 10 However, 
the Petitioner's pay statements reflect that his actual earnings withl were less than half of 
that amount. Specifically, they indicate that, in 2018, he was receiving gross wages of $3802.09 on a 
semi-monthly basis and had year-to-date earnings of $45,625.08 as of June 30, 2018. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director overlooked evidence from the Foreign Labor 
Certification (FLC) Online Wage Library indicating that the "Level 4" wage for art directors is 
$153,587, and a report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics indicating the 90th percentile wage for art 
directors is $170,230. The Petitioner emphasizes that he earns "$200,000, much more than 90% of 
others in this occupation." However, as discussed, the Petitioner did not establish that he has earned 
the $200,000 salary offered to him in his employment agreement. Based on the three pay statements 
provided, the Petitioner's annual salary at the time of filing was approximately $91,250. 
We note that the Petitioner previously submitted information regarding copywriter and senior 
copywriter salaries from various sources, including a printout from Payscale.com indicating that the 
median U.S. salary for a senior copywriter is $73,795, and the ninetieth percentile is $99,000. Based 
on this evidence, the Petitioner's actual salary in 2018, the only year for which evidence of his earnings 
was provided, was above average, but not "significantly high" in comparison to others. The Petitioner 
did not provide data for his geographic area of employment I I Illinois) as a basis for 
comparison. Even considering average national salaries, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
commands a high salary in relation to other copywriters. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's 
determination that this criterion was not met. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although users has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
users from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly denied after 
users approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 
2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the users service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. La. Philharmonic 
Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
10 The agreement stipulates that the Petitioner would be referred to as "Copywriter" throughout the agreement. However, 
we note there are several instances where he is referred to as "Art design director." We note that the Petitioner provided 
comparative wage information for both art directors and copywriters. 
9 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7141740 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior research associate, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is employed as a senior research associate in the Department of Physics & Optical 
Science at the University of . He received his master's degree and 
Doctor of Philosophy in chemistry from in Russia. 
Previous! , the Petitioner has worked as an associate ~rofessor at~-~-----~----
as a senior research associate at I l and as a researcher at the ,....,__ ________ --, ~---~ 
~--------~the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet five of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i) Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v) Original scientific contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (vii) Leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that he met the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The 
record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has peer reviewed manuscripts for several journals, 
including Optical Materials and Optics Letters, and he has co-authored scholarly articles published in 
RSC Advances, Liquid Crystals, Russian Journal of Applied Chemistry, and many other professional 
publications. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director disregarded evidence establishing that he satisfies 
up to three additional criteria, discussed below. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find 
that the Petitioner has not established that he meets a third criterion. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner initially asserted that he met this criterion based on his receipt of "P.restigious national 
awards/grants from the.__ _______________ ~ and thel I I I" between 2015 and 2017. 1 In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy the 
criterion, the Director emphasized that "a research grant is principally designed to fond future research 
and does not honor or recognize past excellence." 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he provided evidence thatc=]grants "are awarded through a 
very competitive process to the most competent and productive researchers who are able to conduct 
research at the world level." He asserts that he established by a preponderance of the evidence that 
'c=J considers past accomplishments of the scientists who apply for research grants and their 
proposals face tough competition at the national level." 
However, we note that the Petitioner did not submit primary evidence of his receipt of the two D 
grants, which he identified in his supporting letter by providing a "Project Number" and the titles of 
the research projects. Rather than providing confirmation of his receipt of these grants from the 
awarding entity, he relied on testimonial evidence from his colleagues. For example, I I I I head of the nanotechnology and biotechnology department at I I states that the 
Petitioner won anD grant for the project I I I 
I 
----~1-- ____________________ .......,I" ~I -------...--~l~o-=..f I University references the Petitioner's receipt of an I lgrant for Project No. I I 
11 
I' 
Both letters contain links td-.______. s website (wwwJ.___....,b, but the Petitioner did not submit copies of 
the referenced materials. 
These third-party letters are insufficient to establish that the Petitioner received the grants in question. 
The Petitioner did not provide, for example, any communications he received from the~ with 
respect to his grants, a public list of awarded projects, or other supporting evidence from the awarding 
entity. 
Further, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that anD 
grant is an award "for excellence," based on a past achievement, rather than an award designed to fond 
proposed research. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or 
awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that his~grants are qualifying nationally or internationally recognized 
awards or prizes, either in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) or on appeal. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 I 
The Petitioner submitted anD publication accompanied by only a partial English translation. The 
document provides general information regarding the foundation's competitive selection process for 
funding ofresearch projects. For example, this document indicates that a prospective project manager 
who seeks to participate in anDgrant competition "must confirm his/her scientific qualifications," 
noting that "[t]he foundation establishes a 'qualification barrier' in the form of the minimum required 
number of publications that are indexed in the Web of Science and Scopus databases." However, it 
does not state what that minimum number of publications is or reflect that the grant is awarded based 
on a researcher's publication record or other pre-existing qualifications. 
While the D publication describes a rigorous review process for grant applications, the limited 
information submitted does not establish that D awards scientists based on their previous 
outstandTg alhievements or demonstrated excellence in the field. The record also reflects that in 
2016, the received 3629 compliant applications and ultimately supported a considerable number 
of projects (581). Finally, the record does not include evidence demonstrating the national or 
international significance of the prizes in the field. Whilee=]is a national organization that accepts 
applications from throughout Russia, the record does not demonstrate that the hundreds of scientists 
whose grants are funded annually received recognition that extends beyond the awarding entity. The 
Petitioner did not provide evidence, for example, theO publishes a public list of grant winners or 
that the awardees receive any type of media attention. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he has received nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner states that he has made "several original, scholarly contributions that are I of majorl 
significance to the field of development of new methods and technology for production of ~------------~' He emphasized that his original methods and technology have 
been patented in Russia, that his contributions have been acknowledged by highly accomplished 
scientists, and that his publications had been cited by others "at least 128" times as of the date of filing. 
The Petitioner provided the "Abstract of Invention" for four Russian patents on which he is named as 
co-inventor. These include:! t2013); ! I 
(2016); '----:':'"-;:::::=============, 
:::::=========--------------'(2016); a.___ _________ ___. 
(2017)." A patent may recognize the originality of an invention or idea but ~--------~ 
4 
does not necessarily establish it as a contribution of major significance in the field; the significance of 
the patent must be established through other evidence. 
The Petitioner provided a letter from.__ _______ __. who states that she has 25 years of 
experience in the Petitioner's field. She describes the Petitioner's atented method of producing I I and notes that ith different isoto ic 
com ositions is the main material used for roduction of the elements of .__ _______ ____. 
'----~----~-------~----~------' " She farther indicates that 
scientists worldwide have been investigating "the feasibility of using.__ _________ _, 
.. and instruments for I t' and states that the Petitioner's method 
for producing .__ _______ ____. "will bring tremendous benefits" to these areas of research. 
While she describes why the Petitioner's patented method as relevant to their shared field, she does 
not explain in any detail how it has already impacted or brought "tremendous benefits" to the field to 
support a finding that it has received recognition as a contribution of "major significance." 
Similarly,! I comments on the Petitioner's patented ' I , I" noting that the invention is "highly sign._i_fi_c_a_n_t-al_l_o_v_e_r-th_e_w_o_r_ld-b-ec--a-u_s__.e I I isotopes are valuable tools for studies of mineral metabolism in humans." She notes that 
the work has "wide application potential in medicine for diagnostic and treatment of cancer and 
cardiovascular diseases." I I also briefly addresses this patented method in his letter, 
noting that "[t]he technical effect of this invention is obtaining a homogeneous I • • I 
'----...-----' for the purposes of cancer labeling and cancer treatment." However, neither letter 
describes or provides examples of current applications of the Petitioner's method as a diagnostic or 
treatment tool, or any other applications, to demonstrate that the method the Petitioner co-invented has 
already remarkably impacted or influenced the field. The potential for major significance does not 
satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
I Is letter also addresses the Petitioner's two patents related to 
emphasizing that the l !materials" that c~a_n_b_e_o_b_t_ai-·n_e_d_v-ia-th_,e 
Petitioner's method are "by far the best in the world in terms of their purity." He explains thatO I l"can be implemented in manufacturing of.__ ___________ _, I ~ used inl I devices," and "are very promising for 
production of I ~-" Some of these same statements 
regarding the potential application of these methods are repeated verbatim in a letter from I J 
I I a professor at the University ofl I while I , I ~choed ~ !s 
statement that the Petitioner's method has produced I : !materials that are "so far 
the best in the world." Again, these statements describe the quality of the Petitioner's novel method and 
its potential for commercial application in the field, without explaining how his method has already been 
widely implemented or deemed by the field to be remarkably impactfol or influential. 
'--------.-------.-----' discusses the novelty and potential significance of the Petitioner's research 
conducted at including one of his patents and other projects for which he received fonding 
from the .__ _ _. and He concludes his letter with a list of the possible applications of the 
Petitioner's novel contributions in the areas of I I 
Specifically, he states that the results of the Petitioner's work "are highly beneficial to the scientific 
communities worldwide as well as to various industries," with potential applications to monitoring 
5 
atmospheric pollution and greenhouse gases, disease detection and monitoring, and vanous 
applications within the I I industry. 
The Petitioner also submitted letters that highlight his current research atl I .... I _____ ___,l an 
assistant rofessor o states that he has been working with the Petitioner on a ro · ect titled 
~---;:::=======,-------------" which is financed by,...._ __ ~-----' 
based on a contract. He explains that the fibers develo ed will have 
for the advancement ofi ~ystems and remote a lications 
applications, such as~-------------~ '-----~ also emphasizes that the 
Petitioner's work on this project has also resulted in "unique technologies and methods," and highlights 
two of the Petitioner's recent co-authored journal articles. However, he does not explain the impact of 
these technologies and methods on the field. He explains why the Petitioner's expertise is important to 
the project, and why the project is important tol I and its fulfillment of thel I contract. 
However, the record does not establish how the Petitioner's work on this project, which has not been 
completed, has resulted in original contributions of major significance. RatherJ I speaks of 
its potential~--------~ applications. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty of the Petitioner's research 
without providing specific examples of contributions that have already made an impact in the field 
consistent with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack 
specifics are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.4 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att)· Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters may 
describe the Petitioner's specific projects in detail, but they do not explain who is using the Petitioner's 
research findings or otherwise describe how those findings have been implemented throughout the 
field. For example, the record does not contain documentary evidence indicating whether his research 
findings have been frequently cited and relied upon by other researchers. Without additional detail 
explaining the influence of the new or innovative techniques he developed, the record does not 
adequately demonstrate that the Petitioner's work in the field has had a demonstrable impact in his 
field commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner has also submitted "copies and contracts and related documents showing [his] work on 
development of new engineering methods, processes and prototypes for production of certain novel 
materials" by the named companies. He emphasized that the evidence demonstrates that at least two 
Russian manufacturing companies relied on his patented work and engineering methods in their own 
production processes. 
Two of the contracts are between a Russian company (identified as the "customer") and the .... l __ ___, 
, which is named as the "contractor." ~--------------------------' While it appears that the agreements may relate to the patented methods the Petitioner co-invented 
during his tenure as a researcher at , and he emphasizes that the Russian company now produces 
certain isotopes of....,,_ __________ __.based on that research, it remains unclear how one 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. 
6 
company's production of these isotopes has had an impact of major significance in his field. He is not 
named in the submitted materials, and he has not provided a letter from either the Russian company 
or the~explaining his role in the commercialization of these products or the impact of that work. 
The Petitioner also submitted a copy of his contract with I I in which he, as an individual 
independent contractor, was expected to define how to receive I I method. He provided a letter froml !thanking him~f_o_r-co_m_p_le-t1-.n-g_t_h_e_c_o_nt-r-ac_t_a_n_d~a 
screenshot from I I website indicating that one of the products they off er is I I 
I F' However, without additional context, we cannot determine the relevance of his 
contribution or the impact he made in the field. The fact that some of his research ultimately led to 
tangible products is not sufficient to establish that he meets the plain language of this criterion. 
With respect to the Petitioner's publication record, he indicated at the time of filing that he had 
published 62 articles which had been cited "at least 128 times." The Petitioner provided the first page 
of a sampling of his co-authored publications, but he did not provide his full publication and citation 
history or explain how his record of publications establish that he has made an original contribution 
of major significance. The evidence submitted does not sufficiently demonstrate that his published 
work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant 
way. 5 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's 
work; however, the fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have referenced, 
is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided partial copies of several journal articles that cite his work, and he remarks 
that the authors of one paper refer to use of a '------------------------' method as "exciting." However, the significance of the cited papers cannot be determined based on a 
brief descriptor, and the Petitioner's research in this area, and its impact on the field, is not discussed in 
the submitted expert opinion letters. Further, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to show that any 
of his published research has provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others in the 
field at a level consistent with "contributions of major significance in the field." 
Similarly, evidence relating to the Petitioner's research activities does not demonstrate that he meets 
this criterion. The record shows that he has been involved in studies that were funded by the0and I I Receiving funding to conduct research, without more, is not an indicator that he has been 
recognized for making contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the Petitioner must 
establish that receiving grants or other similar funding are reflective of his past works' major 
significance, or that his research conducted with the funding resulted in contributions of major 
significance in the field. He has not made such a showing. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has made original scientific 
contribution of major significance in his field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra at 8. 
7 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he has performed in a leading or critical role fo~._-...,.....,_.~ I I and I I and the Director ackn,wledgr this claim in his decision. On appeal, the Petitioner primarily 
addresses his current role with 
The scope of this evidentiary criterion focuses on the relative importance of his role for distinguished 
organizations. In general, a critical role is one in which the petitioner contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 6 In support of 
this criterion, the Petitioner provided the above-mentioned letters froml I, who states that the 
Petitioner is "the leading researcher" onl l's project'-----------------~ I I' and "plays a crucial role on it." He explains that the Petitioner is responsible for 
developing novel technologies for which "there are no analogs ... in the United States," and states that 
the Petitioner's expertise in the field of 'I I 
materials" is indispensable to the creation of these technologies. 
In a second letter, submitted in response to the Director's RFE,I lstates that he is the principal 
investigator on the above-referenced project, while the Petitioner plays a "central role," in which his 
expertise is "essential for the success of the collaborative project." He indicates that ''the results of I ~ collaboration with ~nd the I Is scientific expert the Petitioner] in the above-
mentioned project would allowL__j to complete the contract with the successfull and 
place the company in a unique position to develop and commercialize the innovative.__ _____ __.' 
.__ ____ .....,ts letters speak to the critical role the Petitioner performs with respect to a singld._ __ _. 
research project, but do not provide information indicating how his work on this project is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the university's activities to a degree consistent with the meaning of "critical 
role for organizations or establishments." We agree with the Director's determination that the 
evidence does not establish how the Petitioner's performance in his role on I ts collaboration 
project with I I extends beyond a single project and impacts! Is overall outcomes or 
activities. The Petitioner does not address this specific determination on appeal, and instead states 
that the Petitioner's role is "leading or critical for U.S. organizations that benefit from his ori inal 
scientific contributions." He appears to suggest that his role is critical to both.___.-----.--------' 
c=J, but he is not employed by either of these organizations, even if his work with,___.....,is expected 
to ultimately benefit them. 
Although the Petitioner's arguments on appeal primarily address his role withl I the Petitioner 
generally alludes to other evidence detailing his role with prior employers. The record reflects that I I worked with the Petitioner during his two-year tenure atl I and he describes 
the Petitioner's activities there in detail, noting that his work on specific projects resulted in patents, 
receipt of grant funding, publications in peer-reviewed journals, and invitations to represent the 
university as an invited speaker at international conferences . .__ _____ __. states that these 
achievements "earned him the reputation of one of the leading scientists at our university," and 
explains that the methods the Petitioner developed for purification of chalcogenide materials remain 
critical to his department's current work in this area. While the documents show that the Petitioner 
likely performed a critical role for certain studies atl I he did not demonstrate how his work 
was leading or critical to the university as a whole. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 
We acknowledge! • l's statement that the Petitioner garnered a reputation as a "leading 
scientist" at the university. However, the Petitioner did not establish how this reputation equates to a 
finding that university regarded his associate professor position as a leading role, or one that was 
deemed critical to the outcome of the university's activities. The Petitioner has not provided, for 
example, an organizational chart or other evidence documenting how his associate professor position 
fit within the general hierarchy of the university and how his role and his performance differentiated 
him from the university's other professors, many of which likely conduct and publish their original 
research, successfully apply for grant awards, and receive invitations to speak at conferences. While 
I Is letter establishes that the Petitioner was very productive during his tenure at I I the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he served in a leading or critical role for the university. 
Considering the above discussion, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7144255 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neuroscientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, determining that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The Director further determined that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to demonstrate 
that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise eligible for the benefit 
sought. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a neuroscientist and founder of his own consulting company,._! ____ ____.I where 
he has worked since 201 7. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets five of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about him, relating to his work; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Performance in leading or critical roles 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two criteria, relating to judging and authorship of 
scholarly articles. The Petitioner's documented involvement in peer review for scientific journals 
constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field under 8 C.F.R. 
2 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has written several scholarly articles 
in professional publications in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Upon de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner also established that he meets the published 
materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner submitted evidence that the findings 
made in his 2014 Current Biology article received coverage in a variety of online publications, including 
the Los Angeles Times and some other major media outlets. The Director determined that the submitted 
articles are not about the Petitioner, noting that they "focus on the idea of Gambler's Fallacy, which the 
[Petitioner] did not invent himself" We disagree, as a review of the articles reflects that they focus on 
the Petitioner's own published study ofthd O , I The 
Petitioner is quoted extensively in many of the articles and provides commentary on his research 
methods and the potential implications of his findings. Therefore, we disagree with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not provide evidence of published materials in major media that are 
about him and relating to his work in his field. 
With respect to the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence demonstrating that he had served in a critical role 
wits his rior employer,c=J However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish 
tha enjoys a distinguished reputrion,lnoting that it is a "young organization" that had some "recent 
acclaim." The record indicates that develops educational memory and brain-training apps and 
games for the mobile market and that it distinguished itself in this market segment by winning awards 
in the tech start-up field, receiving "App of the Year" honors on the major mobile platforms, and 
receiving media coverage for its products, its high-profile partnerships, and its business activities. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, we 
will analyze the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not met this very high standard. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 Id. at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety 
to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for 
the immigrant classification). 
3 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence reflecting his educational background and 
employment history. This evidence reflects that he received a bachelor of science in psychology and 
master of science in neuroscience froml I University I I in 2010 and 2011, 
respectively. In 2014, he was awarded a Doctor of Philosophy in Cognitive Neuroscience from 
University! ~ where his research focused on self-control, decision-maling Td 
neurological disorders. After serving as a post-doctoral neuroscientist atc=J, he worked for as 
its Head of Science from 2015 until 201 7. According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner founded I I in 2017 and currently provides services to clients as a neuroscientist and consultant. In 
addition, the Petitioner has authored two books and regularly publishes articles and essays as a science 
writer for the online outlet Medium. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has judged the work of others within his field, authored scholarly 
articles (including one that received mainstream media cover~and previously held a critical role 
with the educational game and app development company L_J We have also considered other 
relevant evidence such as evidence of the recognition he has received based on his original 
contributions to his field, both in the academic domain and in the field of applied neuroscience. The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's achievements are reflective of a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 3 The Petitioner 
states he completed four manuscript reviews in 2014 and 2015, and provided evidence that he 
completed one peer review for Frontiers in Psychology and one for Neuropsychologia.4 Participation 
in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has sustained national 
or international acclaim at the very top of his field. The Petitioner provided rankings for the four 
journals that invited him to review manuscripts, noting, for example, that Neuropsychologia, is ranked 
in the top 10 among behavioral neuroscience journals. The invitations the Petitioner provided from 
these journals indicate that he was selected as a reviewer based on his subject matter expertise; 
however, expertise is a considerably lower threshold than acclaim. Without evidence that sets him 
apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a 
substantial number of review requests relative to others, or served in editorial positions for 
distinguished journals or publications, the Petitioner has not established that his peer review 
experience places him among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the Petitioner's publication of scientific research does not automatically place him at the top 
of the field. The Petitioner emphasized that he has published his research in "some of the most 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 The Petitioner provided evidence that he received invitations to peer review manuscripts from the editors of Frontiers in 
Integrative Neuroscience and Experimental Brain Research but did not document his completion of reviews for these 
journals. 
4 
prestigious academic journals in his field," calling particular attention to the top 15 and top 20 rankings 
of Neuropsychology and Current Biology. 5 The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that his 
publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 
59. As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the 
citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's articles can be an indicator to 
determine the impact and recognition that his work has had on the field and whether such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the 
Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other researchers 
have been influenced by it. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate 
pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner offered evidence that his most-cited articles had been cited by 
others 19 and 16 times, respectively. He authored one additional article that had been cited by others, 
with seven citations. The Petitioner did not submit comparative data demonstrating that any of these 
articles are considered highly cited, or that his overall citation record is high relative to the top 
researchers in the neuroscience field. While the citations, both individually and collectively, show 
that field has noticed his work, the Petitioner did not claim or attempt to establish that such rates of 
citation demonstrate a level of interest commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim 
in his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that the 
citations to his research represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at 
the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner also rovided evidence that he authored a technical guide,~--------~ 
~~.=================>-w~h""'ic""'h"--1"""· s'-'i"'"n""te""n~d"-=e'""d""'f"""o""'r_,,students and researchers, and a 
book,.__ _______________________ _., which appears to be intended 
for a wider audience. The Petitioner has not provided evidence regarding the number of books 
published or sold, evidence that speaks to the field's reaction to these books, or other information to 
establish that the Petitioner's activities as a book author have received or resulted in sustained national 
or international acclaim. 
Finally, with respect this his published work, the Petitioner emphasizes that he is a prolific contributor 
of "essays and articles about the brain and mind" to the online platform Medium (www.medium.com) 
and "has attracted a large readership," with some articles recognized as among the most read on the 
website. 6 Medium is described in the record as an "online publishing platform" that is "regularly 
regarded as a blog host," and which offers articles by a "hybrid collection of amateur and professional 
people." The Petitioner provided evidence that he earned j I recognition in several fields 
including mental health, science, psychology, health and self-improvement, and explained that this 
recognition is determined by an algorithm. He also states that he is "among the few authors published 
by Medium who is receiving payment for publishing on the platform." 
The Petitioner submitted his Medium profile, which indicates that he joined the platform in ~I---~ 
2018 and had approximately 1,960 followers at the time he filed the petition. While it appears that his 
5 The Petitioner's submitted Google Scholar citation history includes seven publications authored by him in 2014 and 
2015, including four peer-reviewed a11icles, his doctoral thesis, and two "replies" published in a 2015 issue of Current 
Biology in relation to his 2014 Current Biology article. 
6 The Petitioner indicated that his most-read article had 29,000 views. 
5 
articles have been well-received by Medium readers, the evidence does not establish how his success 
on this platform is indicative of or has led to his sustained national or international acclaim as a 
neuroscientist. The fact that he is one of the few writers who is paid for his contributions to Medium 
is not an indicator that he has been recognized as one of the small percentage at the very top of his 
scientific field. The Petitioner has not provided evidence to demonstrate that his record of publication, 
or the reaction to it by other experts in his field, places him at that level or is indicative of his sustained 
acclaim. 
The Petitioner places particular emphasis on evidence that his 2014 peer-reviewed Current Biology 
article, ~~---~-------------------~-~-------' received 
an "overwhelming response" not from other researchers, but from newspapers and other news 
organizations in the United Kingdom, United States, and a dozen other countries. As noted, some of 
the attention the Petitioner's article received was from major media outlets, including the Los Angeles 
Times, BBC News, The Times, and The Telegraph. The Petitioner asserts that "[i]t is extremely rare 
that the work of a scientist gets this much attention from the general public." In his study, he analyzed 
.__ _____________________________ ___. by reviewing footage 
from World Cup and Euro Cup football matches that had been played over a 36-year period. The 
evidence reflects that his study' s findings were deemed to be of interest to readers with an interest in 
soccer/football and with an interest in behavioral science, as the articles were published in both sports 
and science sections of these publications. 
While the scope of media attention received by the Petitioner's journal publication may be unusual, if 
not "extremely rare," he has not established that the media outlets recognized him as a researcher with 
a career of sustained national or international acclaim. The published materials are about him in that 
he is acknowledged as thee=] doctoral student who co-authored the Current Biology article and was 
interviewed and quoted about his research and findings. They do not, however, focus on him or his 
overall body of work or reputation in the field. Nor does the evidence establish how this media 
attention, while likely beneficial to him as he pursued opportunities in his post-academic career, has 
resulted in sustained acclaim or in his recognition by his field as one of the small percentage at the 
very top of that field. The Petitioner has not shown, for example, that he or his work have received 
major media attention since 2014. The record reflects that the Petitioner, in his capacity as lead 
neuroscientist at was one of several neuroscientists interviewed for a 2016 article titled ,c=J 
.__ ____________________ ____. published by Wareable.com, a website 
described as "the go-to resource for wearable technology reviews, news and analysis for consumers, 
shoppers and those within the industry." However, this article is not about the Petitioner and the record 
reflects no other published materials him and his work. 
We have also considered the Petitioner's claim that the media attention afforded to his 2014 Current 
Biology article reflects that he received recognition for an original contribution of major significance. 
The evidence reflects that the Petitioner's psychological study of.__ ____________ __. I lwas likely novel and generated interest in the mainstream media. However, this evidence 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner made a contribution that has remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field of neuroscience. 
Rather, the Petitioner states that his findings "have the potential to significantly change the behavior 
of professional soccer players at the highest levels of the sport and thereby significantly impact the 
outcome of major soccer tournaments worldwide." He submits evidence that soccer is a multibillion 
6 
industry and states that given the economic importance of the sport, his research should be regarded 
as a contribution of major significance. While it may be true that the scientific evidence gained from 
the Petitioner's research "may be used to train I I 
~-------~ ' he neither claimed nor provided evidence that coaches, trainers or sports 
psychologists working in the sport have relied on his research to inform their coaching and training 
methods. Moreover, as discussed above, he has not established that his research findings from this 
study, cited 16 times by other researchers, have made a major impact on the field of neuroscience or 
that this level of interest in his research is demonstrative of his placement among the small percentage 
of neuroscientists at the very top of the field. 
With regard to the Petitioner's role atD and his contributions made while with the company, he 
has not established that his 22-month tenure as head of science with this organization resulted from or 
led to sustained national or international acclaim, or that this role is indicative of a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. The Petitioner 
submitted a letter froml I who provided sufficient information regarding 
the Petitioner's role and accomplishments to establish that he significantly contributed to the 
company'( earl} success and noted that his efforts "were instrumental to ensure a robust scientific 
culture at I I states that the Petitioner represented the company at several conferences 
as "an ambassador for the brand" and the record reflects that hµ.ont:ributed to the above-referenced 
Wareable.com article in his capacity as lead neuroscientist withl__J However, neither the reference 
letter nor the supporting evidence demonstrates that he drew ygnifi1ant attention or gained significant 
recognition from the greater field as a result of his work with 
The Petitioner highlights Os collaboration with I O I University scientists to create I I a memory and brain-training application that "has the potential to improve the memory of 
patients with I • t' I I of I I states that the Petitioner's 
neuroscience training and "business expertise" make him "a person of extraordinary ability" with 
"unique skills." She states that, while ate=] "[h ]is efforts helped us to launch a digital game 
worldwide for training memory -the first collaboration of its kind between University of I I 
and a mainstream tech company." I I praises ~ioner's ability to translate "academic 
findings into popular consumer products," describes theL___Japp as "valuable," and states that the 
Petitioner's~ "stj·mulated si~nificant progress in a fast-moving industry." The record supports a 
finding thatl__Jand ~----~J scientists enjoyed a productive collaborative relationship that was 
perhaps novel in nature, and that the Petitioner was involved in that relationship. However, the 
Petitioner has not established that the mobile app that resulted has made a major impact in the field of 
neuroscience or that it has been successfully used to treat patients with I I health 
disorders. Further, the Petitioner has not established that his role in this project forc=J resulted in 
any notable recognition or attention to him by others in the field outside of the parties working on the 
project. For example, the Petitioner is not mentioned inl the prss release regardinC7s partnership 
wit~~---~~ or in any publicity materials regarding s products. 
I I letter also highlighted the Petitioner's work with professional rugby players, noting that 
LJhad a collaboration with England's! ~ He explains that the Petitioner regularly 
visited with the players to test cofnitive ability and worked on developing methods for tracking the 
effect of head injuries.I further explains that "[t]ogether with the team physiotherapist, he 
collected important data that gave us an insight into the cognitive decline experienced after a 
7 
concussion, and the stages ofrecovery following the head trauma." Finally, he states that he "cannot 
overstate the relevance of this research with respect to the athlete's welfare and sports in general." 
The Petitioner provided an article from Motherboard (motherboard.vice.corn) which discusses the 
joint study between the rugby tearn,~ancl I OJ University. The record does not contain any 
information regarding the outcome of the study or its impact on the team or "sports in general" in 
support of the Petitioner's claim that his efforts resulted in a contribution of major significance in the 
field. The evidence reflects that the Petitioner's work withc=J potentially has several important 
implications, but the Petitioner has not shown how it has had a significant impact on his field. 
Moreover, the submitted article and press release do not mention the Petitioner and there is no evidence 
that his participation in the rugby study garnered him recognition in his field. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his contributions have garnered him a level of sustained national or international 
acclaim that has elevated him to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Cornrn'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his ongoing work 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). While one of the Petitioner's published works 
garnered significant media attention, the record does not indicate that he has achieved a degree of 
recognition consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. We find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether his "entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii). See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
C. 0-1 Nonirnrnigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonirnrnigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonirnrnigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly denied after 
USCIS approves prior nonirnrnigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 
8 
2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6525920 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously founded~_------.L.,;;a,;....._m....;;..e.;;_,dia consultancy company, and I I a wiki-style 
website focused on travel. He co-founded served as its chief executive officer and co-created 
its namesake platform, described as'~~----~---------------~ 
He now works as a software engineer at,___ ___ ___, 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to a leading or critical 
role for distinguished organizations or establishments. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the five other claimed evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that the Petitioner has satisfied one further criterion: 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
An official ofl I states that the Petitioner "is paid a base annual salary of $230,000 plus a 
bonus target of 20% ... and ... is among the highest paid software engineer[s] at the company evidencing 
his prominence in the field." A printout :from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that the 90th percentile 
annual salaiy for "software developers, applications" in the United States is $160,100. The Online Wage 
Library of the Foreign Labor Certification Data Center indicated that the level 4 wage for fully competent 
software developers in the New York metropolitan area is $117,624 per year. 
2 
In the denial notice, the Director did not specify how the submitted evidence was deficient. The Director 
stated: "Average salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with 
different responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison." This is a true statement, but the Director 
did not explain how it applies to the case at hand. Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner that he 
provided sufficient evidence of his high salary in relation to others in the field, including sources provided 
in USCIS's own Adjudicator's Field Manual. Those sources consist of websites operated or sponsored 
by the U.S. Department of Labor, including the examples cited above. We conclude that the Petitioner 
has satisfied this criterion. 
However, after reviewing the evidence of record, we conclude, for the following reasons, that the 
Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner was a co-creator of the hich won thel !Award 2012 from thee] 
'i=======,-----------------..-------r1 and the~I ____ ___,!Award from LJ 
The Petitioner was not named as a recipient of either award, and the record does not show that either is 
nationally or internationally recognized. The information in the record about the awards is all from the 
respective awarding entities, either from the entities' own websites or from published press releases 
originating from the entities. 
Regarding! ts award, the Petitioner asserts: "Press in attendance have included USA Today 
[and the] New York Times." The record does not show that either of those publications reported the prize 
winners. Their claimed presence or participation is not evidence of the recognition of a particular prize. 
Likewise, an article referring tol I as the "world's largest..,..__ _________ _,' does not 
establish recognition of awards fro~ the ever Other than press releases and related promotional 
materials, the submitted articles about.___ _ ____.do not mention prizes or awards. 
The Petitioner also contends that venture capital funding from.___ ____ ___, is a qualifying award. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "the raising of venture capital does not qualify as a[ n] 
internationally recognized prize or award. Rather it is a business necessity for entrepreneurial start-up 
companies." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that not every new business receives venture capital, and 
therefore it is not a "business necessity." An official ofi I which provided the venture 
capital for the Petitioner's company, states that the company invested in the Petitioner's startup "based 
on the quality of the intellectual prope1iy and leadership of [ the Petitioner] personally." 
The Petitioner cites guidance from the website of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), 
indicating that a petitioner may submit evidence of "venture capital funding" as evidence of a nationally 
or internationally recognized prize or award. The printout submitted to support this assertion is not 
directly from users' website, but rather a privately archived copy of the page from 2015. The Petitioner 
3 
has not established that this information is binding in this proceeding, or that the guidance was in effect 
in any form when the Petitioner filed the petition in 2019. 
Furthermore, assuming that venture capital could be considered a prize or award, this would not mean 
that any and all venture capital, from whatever source, is a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award. The Petitioner has not specifically shown that venture capital froml I is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion.1 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted printouts from various online publications. The Director stated that, for various 
reasons, online publications are "less probative than documents published by a publishing house or major 
news organization." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director cited no valid ground for 
discounting online publications. The Petitioner maintains that "he has been featured in major trade 
publications and major media regarded as the top sources for the field -not 'blogs' that have 'little 
probative value.'" (Elsewhere in the appellate brief, the Petitioner asserts that several of the publications 
are ranked on lists of the "best tech blogs.") 
While the Director may not have given sufficient weight to online-only publications, we need not decide 
the question of whether the specific sites constitute qualifying media, because the materials submitted are 
not about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field. 
Various online publications ran articles about I I to report its founding and later rounds of 
capitalization. The articles identify the Petitioner as a co-tounder ofl I but did not emphasize him 
or his work. One article published in Gigaom quoted the Petitioner about data mining and mobile 
platforms; an article in TechCrunch quoted the Petitioner regarding thel I app's use of geotagged 
photographs to identify likely places of interest. 
Earlier articles focused on a now-defunct collaboration platform called I I The articles quoted 
from blog posts by the Petitioner, identified as a tech lead in 2009 and as a software engineer in 2010. 
The Petitioner's comments concerned I I features without identifying his specific work on 
the project. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
1 Apart from the awards discussed above, the Petitioner initially asserted that he "has been personally awarded with 8 US 
patents." The record documents these patents, but patents are not prizes or awards for excellence in the field. The Petitioner 
does not pursue this particular claim on appeal. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted in APWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
Letters from individuals who have had varying degrees of contact with the Petitioner, including several 
who have invested in his companies, include descriptions of his various past endeavors. For example, a 
forme~ !employee, who is lnow a partner at a venture capital firm, stated that the Petitioner created 
authorship ranking, which allows search engine to rank original content ahead of sites that copy 
or quote that content. The Petitioner is named on patents relating to this technology. 
As another example, an entrereneur who has "had several fruitful discussions" with the Petitioner states 
that the Petitioner "launched I the first commercial and public wiki " which allowed users to 
contribute to "a worldwide travel guide that was never out of date." I !included "[a] hierarchical 
database" and a "way of collecting user generated content [that] has been widely followed -I I 
predates Wikipedia by two years -and has had a huge impact on the industry." The same individual 
asserts: 
[T]he superior technology behind! !developed by [the Petitioner] is also highly 
innovative and has significantly influenced the field. By using algorithms that improve 
upon the state of the art in Machine Learning and Big Data,I I is able to turn an 
unsupervised web crawl into a consumer ready travel guide, without any human editing . 
. . . [The Petitioner's] contributions to the field of Big Data and Machine Learning are 
widely recognized and lauded. 
The Petitioner states that the letters are from "industry leaders who have testified that [the Petitioner's] 
work is considered important in the field and that his work is being implemented by others," but the record 
does not sufficiently document that implementation. The record includes background materials about the 
writers of the letters, but little documentary evidence to provide context to the contributions attributed to 
the Petitioner. For example, the record contains copies of patents in the Petitioner's name, and 
information about citation to those patents, but the Petitioner has not objectively shown that this level of 
citation demonstrates major significance. 
Regarding an instructional book that the Petitioner wrote, a former colleague atl I stated: "the 
importance of [the Petitioner's] book ... is better assessed by the number of stars on the accompanying 
git repository and the fact that it has been translated into multiple languages rather than the number of 
citations." The record does not include the book's git repository (or provide explanatory context), nor 
does the record establish the circumstances and criteria underlying the decision to translate the Petitioner's 
book. The existence of translations is not presumptive evidence of major significance. 
5 
The Director acknowledged the submitted letters, but stated that, by themselves, such letters are not 
dispositive evidence of qualifying contributions. They must be weighed against the objective evidence 
in the record. The Director also stated that patents are evidence of originality, but not of significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes from the submitted letters and contends that "[i]t is widely confirmed by 
experts across the field that [the Petitioner's] contributions are of major significance in the field, no 
reasoning was offered by the Director in rejecting this evidence." While the Director did not discuss the 
letters in detail, we agree with the Director that the record lacks '"preexisting, independent, and 
corroborating evidence" to support the assertions in the submitted letters. Letters can provide context and 
clarify the nature of an individual's specific contributions to a given project, but they cannot take the place 
of documentary evidence with respect to claims of demonstrable fact. For example, a letter saying that a 
given type of technology is "widely used" is general and vague, lacking key information about who is 
using it and how that use has been of significant benefit to the field. Such statements cannot satisfy the 
statutory requirement for "extensive documentation" at section 203(b )( 1 )( A )(i) of the Act. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner wrote an instructional book on deep learning and contributed chapters to two books.2 The 
Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown that "the authored works were published in professional 
publications, trade publications, or other major media." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that'I I' [sic] "is a major trade publication." ~I----~ 
(which published two of the books in question) is a publisher, not a publication. A particular book may 
qualify as a major trade publication, but this status is contingent on the reception of the book rather than 
the status of its publisher. The reputation of a given publisher does not necessarily correspond to whether 
individual publications produced by that publisher are major or minor. 
Because the denial mentions only "a book published by the petitioner," the Petitioner protests that the 
Director disregarded the Beneficiary's book chapters. The Petitioner, however, cites no evidence on 
appeal to support the claim that the books in question are professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. Instead, as above, the Petitioner discusses the publishing companies that issued the books. 
Accordingly, we conclude that the submitted evidence does not satisfy this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
2 The Petitioner notes that one of these books has 107 citations on Google Scholar, but the Petitioner does not show how 
many of these citations pertain to the chapter he wrote in that book. 
6 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6409338 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner had released 12 singles and 3 extended play records. She had also 
recorded an album forl I, but that album had not yet been released when the Petitioner 
filed the petition. 
Before addressing the merits of the case, the Petitioner contends that the Director applied the wrong 
standard of proof In this proceeding, the correct standard of proof is a preponderance of the evidence, 
meaning that the Petitioner must show that her claims are "more likely than not" or "probably" true. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I& N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director improperly imposed the higher standard of clear and convincing 
evidence. But the only example that the Petitioner provides is that the Director relied on "spurious 
reasoning" to discount media coverage about the Petitioner. The Petitioner does not explain how this 
shows that the Director required clear and convincing evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner must establish that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, or, in 
the alternative, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven criteria, summarized 
below: 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to display. We 
will not disturb the finding relating to display. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the first four criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner meets three of the criteria, numbered (iii), (iv), and 
(vii). Below, we will explain why we are reversing the Director's conclusions regarding the third and 
fourth criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted several online articles and documented a number of television and radio 
appearances. Not all of these materials meet the requirements of the regulation, but some of them do 
meet them, and thus the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion relating to media coverage. 
The Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion that radio and television appearances "are not published 
material." We agree with the Petitioner that the Director erred by arbitrarily excluding radio and 
television coverage. The regulation refers to "publications or other major media." This wording is broad 
enough to include broadcast media as well as print media, all of which are "published" through their 
availability to the public, whether via print or electronic means. 
The Petitioner has established the required media coverage. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner is a voting member of the Latin Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences (LARAS), in 
which capacity she votes among the nominees for Latin Grammy Awards. By having some influence 
over the selection of award winners, the Petitioner participates as a judge as described in the regulation. 
The significance of this voting activity is a matter for the final merits determination, further below. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that she satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner has established an active career in live performance and as a recording artist. The 
record shows a pattern of increasing exposure, but does not show that her career has progressed to the 
point where she is in the small percentage at the very top of her field. 
The Petitioner was nominated for the 'I t' award at thec=]Latin Grammys. Although 
she did not win the award, she contends that the nomination itself should carry considerable weight, 
to the point of being comparable evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, international 
recognized award) contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), 
however, does not permit evidence comparable to a one-time achievement; it applies only to the ten lesser 
criteria enumerated at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Furthermore, the comparable evidence clause applies 
only if the ten criteria "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation." Awards clearly exist in the 
Petitioner's field of endeavor; nomination for such an award, without actually winning the award, does 
not trigger the comparable evidence clause. 
The Petitioner states that her "nomination for a Latin Grammy Award alone evidences she has risen to 
the top of her field and is an acclaimed international musician. Nomination for this award sets her apart 
from all others in her field." Such a claim requires substantial supporting evidence, which the Petitioner 
has not provided. 
A Latin Grammy nomination is a significant achievement, but a nomination for .__ _____ __," by its 
very nature, is not indicative of sustained acclaim. The.__ _____ __,' category inherently excludes 
widely-recognized and long-established artists from consideration. 
It also bears noting that the Petitioner began releasing recordings in 2009, and was nominated for the 
.__ _____ __,' award about eight years later. The Petitioner's eligibility for that category does not 
suggest that LARAS had taken significant notice of the Petitioner's earlier recorded work ( and thus 
that the Petitioner's work had earned her sustained acclaim). When Billboard announced thee=] 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
Latin Grammy nominations, it indicated that none of the Petitioner's recordings had appeared in the 
Billboard charts. 
In light of this information, it is also significant that the Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), pertaining to commercial success in the performing arts, but she abandoned 
that claim on appeal after the Director found that the Petitioner had not submitted adequate supporting 
documentary evidence. 2 
Similarly, media coverage in the record does not portray the Petitioner as a top artist with sustained 
national or international acclaim. A 2018 interview with the Petitioner referred to her as "an emerging 
artist" at "the start of [her] career." The Petitioner has appeared on television and radio programs to 
promote recent releases, but has not established a level of consistent coverage that top musical acts 
can attract. A number of the television performances appear to have been on local morning programs 
rather than national prime-time broadcasts. 
The president of the record company for which the Petitioner had recorded an album stated: "I have 
worked with worldwide superstars like Jennifer Lopez, Nelly Furtado, Marc Anthony and Ricky 
Martin." In contrast, he referred to the Petitioner as "a full time professional entertainer with an 
increasingly bright future and a long career ahead of her, which I am certain will take her to 
international fame." This statement is a subjective assessment of the Petitioner's potential for future 
acclaim, rather than an indication that she has already reached the top of her field. An "increasingly 
bright future" is not tantamount to sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has performed at various special events, but did not show that these performances~ 
indicative of an artist already at the top of the field. She performed at an event related to the L__J 
Latin Grammy A wards, but does not claim to have performed at the award ceremony itself. Her 
highest-profile touring activity appears to have been as a supporting act for another artist. 
The Petitioner has established her membership in LARAS, but it appears that the major qualification 
for that membership is the commercial release of recorded work. Releasing recordings is not 
intrinsically indicative of acclaim, particularly at a time when changes in technology and the music 
industry have made it possible for artists (including the Petitioner) to independently self-release their 
recordings digitally via download or streaming services, without record company involvement. 
Also with respect to the Petitioner's LARAS membership, we have concluded that it meets the letter 
of the regulatory requirement regarding judging the work of others, but we must also consider the 
context in which that judging takes place. All voting members of LARAS can vote in the balloting 
for the Latin Grammy A wards, and the principal requirement for voting membership in LARAS is to 
have an active recording career. Therefore, notwithstanding the prestige of the Latin Grammy A wards, 
the Petitioner's ability to vote for its recipients is not indicative of being at the top of the field or 
sustained acclaim. 
2 See Sepulveda v. US. Att); Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
5 
The Petitioner submitted statistics regarding streaming of her music on Spotify, but she did not provide 
any context to compare those figures to those of others in her field. The raw numbers do not show 
where she stands in relation to other artists. The information also shows that listeners in 61 countries 
streamed her music, but, again, the available evidence is not sufficient to show that only a small 
percentage of recording artists at the very top of the field have such a wide distribution of listeners. 
Likewise, evidence of the Petitioner's social media presence carries limited weight without a basis for 
companson. 
The Petitioner showed that one of her singles placed on local charts in Bogota, but she did not establish 
comparable chart placement at the national level. The Petitioner showed that a manufacturer had 
invoiced a total of about 17,000 compact discs between 2009 and 2014. This is an aggregate total of 
several different titles, and even then, the documentation shows only how many copies exist, rather 
than their sales. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the record establishes that the Petitioner has earned some degree of success and attention in an 
intensely competitive field of endeavor. The Latin Grammy nomination, in particular, is a coveted 
form of recognition. The Petitioner, however, has not established a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6547352 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chemist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earninr a PhD in Chemistry froml ~ in 2013, the Petitioner began 
working forL I in lr--'"""==-1-I P_e_nn_s_y-lv_a_n-ia_,_w_h_e_r_e_h_e_i-nt_e_n_d_Js to continue working as a lead 
chemist. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criteria pertaining to judging and scholarly articles. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the other two claimed criteria. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. The Petitioner meets only the two criteria 
granted by the Director. We will discuss the other two claimed criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
2 
The Petitioner initially submitted letters describing his work at C::J and I I in va~egrees 
of technical detail. We will discuss examples of these letters here. A former colleague atL_J stated 
the following: 
[The Petitioner] wants to exploit the technology ofj I dyes by developing varying 
architectural designs to create bright I I labels for molecular detection and 
cellular imaging. The versions of the tags that he has constructed are structurally sound 
but functionally and srectroscopically flexible. These salient features are crucial ... for 
developing potential _ I therapeutic pathways and high throughput 
compound screening that has a more direct impact on public health care. 
The professor who supervised the Petitioner's doctoral studies at stated that the Petitioner "has 
made significant contributions to the field of molecular diagnostics using.__ ___ _, technology." The 
professor describes the Petitioner's "groundbreaking work" in technical detail, but does not explain how 
that work has influenced the field. The assertion that laterlgradure students have built on the Petitioner's 
work does not show impact beyond that one laboratory at 
The president and chief executive officer (CEO) of1 .... ___ __.lstated that the Petitioner "took the lead" 
on various company drug screening projects. For example: 
.__ ____ ____.I is a receptor forl ~' a growth factor whose mutation 
causes fronto-temporal dementia (FTD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. . . . [The 
Petitioner] created a very sensitive method for measuring thel !interaction as 
a means to screen for compounds that will be therapeutic agents for FTD .... He was 
able to screen some preliminary hits and is currently doing further work to validate those 
hits. 
The Petitioner's other projects involve screening for mutant genes relating to Parkinson's disease, cystic 
fibrosis, and other degenerative diseases. The letter indicates that the Petitioner's work has attracted 
funding in the form of grants and venture capital, but does not explain how the Petitioner's contributions 
have had an impact on the field. The nature of the Petitioner's work contributes to drug discovery, but 
the record does not objectively establish that the Petitioner's efforts have had major significance. 
The director ofthe.__ _______ __,at the University ofl I, a colleague ofl ts 
founder, stated that the Petitioner "managed to revolutionize this drug discovery platform," but the record 
does not show that the Petitioner's methods have been widely adopted or have accelerated drug discovery. 
The submitted letters offer very detailed and technical descriptions of the nature of the Petitioner's work, 
but refer only in general terms to the promise and potential of how that work might be of future benefit. 
The Director advised the Petitioner in a request for evidence: "While the letters of recommendation 
provide detailed information about the research that the beneficiary has conducted ... , they have not 
established that the research achievements have made a major scientific impact." 
In response, the president and CEO ofl O I stated that the Petitioner's "contributions to the 
company have impact across all of our programs. His work has led directly to the discovery of potential 
3 
new drugs to treat Parkinson's disease, Gaucher's disease, and certain forms of Alzheimer's." He also 
stated that the Petitioner's "contributions ... are closely-held trade secrets that will eventually lead to 
patents once the Company advances its drug compounds into clinical trials." 
The Petitioner does not explain how "closely-held trade secrets" already have major significance, while 
they are concealed from everyone else in the field, and before clinical trials have demonstrated the 
effectiveness of the drug candidates. The seriousness or prevalence of a given disease does not convey 
major significance on every secret, untested drug candidate intended to treat that disease. The Petitioner 
submitted background materials about the drug development process, indicating that "thousands and 
sometimes millions of compounds . . . may be screened and assessed . . . only a few of which will 
ultimately receive approval." The materials also indicated that the majority of candidates never reach the 
clinical trial stage, and that "[l]ess than 12% of the candidate medicines that enter clinical testing make it 
to approval." The record does not show that I I has produced any approved drugs, or that any 
of its drug candidates have reached the clinical trial stage. Therefore, it is not evident that the Petitioner 
has made contributions of major significance in this regard. 
The Director concluded that "while the letters provide information about the beneficiary's research and 
original contributions to the field, they have not established that his research achievements have made a 
major significant impact or are of major significance in the field." The Director stated that the potential 
for major significance does not satisfy the regulatory requirements, and found that the Petitioner did not 
submit objective documentary evidence to corroborate the claims in the submitted letters. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that his doctoral research, documented in journal articles and 
conference presentations, "constitute[s] contributions of major significance." The Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner's scholarly articles satisfy a separate regulatory criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Although the record includes two articles (published in 2011) that have accumulated 
30 citations, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that his work has been cited as 
authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant way. See USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation o_f Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM UpdateADl 1-14, 8 (Dec. 22, 
2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. Generally, citations can serve as an 
indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work; however, the fact that the Beneficiary 
has published articles that other researchers have referenced, is not, by itself: sufficient to establish the 
he meets this criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to show that his 
doctoral research has provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others in the field at 
a level consistent with "contributions of major significance in the field." The Petitioner also contends 
that the Director did not give sufficient weight to letters from the CEO ofl lbut statements 
from the Petitioner's employer do not necessarily reflect a consensus in the field. 
The Petitioner also asserts that I I's receipt of two research grants from the I I 
I l is "evidence that the contributions made by [the Petitioner] have been substantial. If not, they 
would not continue to give grants tol I' The record does not include evidence from the 
Foundation to show what factors the Foundation considered when reviewing! l's second grant 
application. Without such evidence, we cannot give any weight to the claim that the Foundation's grants 
are presumptive evidence of the significance of the Petitioner's contributions. (We note that a submitted 
4 
printout from the Foundation's website identifies the lab's president, not the Petitioner, and therefore it 
does not show special attention to the Petitioner in particular.) 
The Petitioner has not established that his original contributions have been of major significance in the 
field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner initially claimed a "leading or critical role for both.__ _________ __, and for 
.__ _____ __," On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
did not show that he played a leading or critical role for I I We therefore consider the issue to be 
abandoned. 1 
The Petitioner asserts that his "critical role helps I I receive funding from venture 
capitalists and disease foundations." We do not need to discuss the nature of the Petitioner's role at the 
company unless the Petitioner has established that I I has a distinguished reputation. 
As evidence of that reputation, the Petitioner has submitted copies of several online articles indicating 
thatl I secured venture capital funding and entered into collaborations with com anies that 
~<led materials such as "patient-derived cells" and a "proprietary compound library" for 
L__J use. The company also participates in a startup incubator run by the University of .__ __ __, 
The Petitioner did not explain how these materials establish that I I has a distinguished 
reputation. Media coverage announced the beginnings of various ventures, such as collaborations, and 
the receipt of grants and venture capital. The Petitioner has not shown thatl I has attracted 
similar coverage for the results obtained as a result of the announced collaborations and funding. Local 
media announced the company's intention to begin drug development, but, as already noted above, the 
record does not show thatl lhas developed any approved drugs. The company's documented 
track record consists of fundraising and "closely-held trade secrets" that have not yet proven to be 
effective. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not "submit evidence to establish that!.__ _____ __, D has a distinguished reputation as compared to other related organizations." On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that the regulation "does NOT require a comparison to other related organizations," only that 
the organization in question be "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." The Petitioner cites 
"Webster's online dictionary" for this definition, as does a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy memorandum.2 According to that same online source, however, the terms "eminence, 
distinction, [ and] excellence" all imply such a comparison. Eminence is "a position of prominence or 
1 See Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham. 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); see also Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 
Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra. 
5 
superiority";3 distinction is "the quality or state of being excellent or superior";4 and excellence is the 
noun form of to excel, which means "to be superior to" or to "surpass in accomplishment or 
achievement."5 All these definitions include the inherently comparative term "superior," defined as "of 
higher rank, quality, or importance" and "one that surpasses another in quality or merit."6 
Notwithstanding the Petitioner's claim that "distinguished" is not a com arative term, the Petitioner 
claims that "newspaper articles from the I !Business Times and Post Gazette describe I las a leader in the field, thereby essentially comparing~-----' to others in the field." The 
submitted articles from those papers, however, do not use the words "leading" or "leader" to describe 
I I and the Petitioner does not provide quotes from any of the articles that could be construed to 
have that meaning. One article indicates that I I is one of the first companies of its kind in the I larea, but the company's geographical location does not make the company "a leader in the 
field." 
The record does not show that .... ! _____ ___.I has a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/eminence (last visited Apr. 3, 2020). 
4 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinction (last visited Apr. 3, 2020). 
5 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/excel (last visited Apr. 3, 2020). 
6 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/superior (last visited Apr. 3, 2020). 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6548360 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a recording engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had established sustained acclaim through a major, one-time achievement 
as claimed. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
On the appeal form, the Petitioner indicated that he would submit a brief within 30 days. Ten months 
later, the record contains no further submission from the Petitioner. We consider the record to be complete 
as it now stands. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner seeks to continue working as a mixing and recording engineer (and bassist) tori I ltor which he has already worked on several past projects. ,___ _ ___, 
,i=,...,;;;.~..u...u...=i.....:=.J..l"-'='-',as a recording engineer and post-production engineer on .__ _______ __. 
'-----;::::sz====---.:T..:..h:..:::.e..:..P~e.::.tit.::.io::::n..:.::.:er contends that he received a major, international Iv recognized award 
because ,__ _______ ___, won a Grammy Award for Bestl , ""j I Music 
Performance/Song. He does not claim, in the alternative, to have satisfied at least three of the lesser 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Therefore, we will not discuss those lesser criteria in this 
decision. 
The Petitioner did serve as an engineer on a Grammy-winning project, but the record does not show that 
he received a Grammy Award. Rather, he received a certificate from the National Academy of Recording 
Arts and Sciences (NARAS) "in recognition of [his] participation as Engineer on the GRAMMY Award­
winning recording." NARAS' logo depicts the distinctive statuette presented to Grammy winners, but he 
did not receive such a statuette. 
An email message from NARAS tol I Publishing states: "The winner certificate ... is given 
to Producers and Engineers that had less than 51 % of time on the album. So while they don't get statues, 
the [Petitioner and three others] are listed to receive winner certificates from us!" The three other named 
individuals had various production and engineering roles. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner did not document that he personally received 
the Grammy Award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
2 
The petitioner is a winner of the~Grammy award in the Best~-~-----~ 
Music Performance/Song category. As is common in the music industry, the petitioner 
shared the award with several others involved in the production .... [T]he Center Director 
denied the petition on the grounds that ... the petitioner was not the sole winner of the 
Grammy award . . . . The Center Director's decision is arbitrary and capricious because 
no statute, regulation, or precedential decision mandates that a petitioner must be the sole 
recipient of a major, international award. 
The Petitioner, here, misstates the grounds for denial. The Director did not deny the petition because "the 
petitioner was not the sole winner," nor did the Director require that "a petitioner must be the sole recipient 
of a major, international award." We recognize that certain awards or prizes, such as Nobel Prizes, can 
go to joint winners. Rather, the Director found that the Petitioner did not document his receipt of a 
Grammy Award, or show that a "winner ce1tificate" relating to a Grammy Award has recognition 
comparable to the award itself. 
The Petitioner did not establish that NARAS either (1) gave the Petitioner a Grammy award, (2) identified 
him as a Grammy winner (rather than as a participant in a Grammy-winning project), or (3) acknowledged 
that the award was the result of the Petitioner's engineering work. The name of the category highlights 
the "Performance" and "Song," rather than the recording or the engineering thereof, and NARAS has not 
indicated that the quality or technical aspects of the engineering helped to determine the outcome of the 
award. The Petitioner acknowledges that NARAS does award Grammys specifically for engineering 
work, but the Petitioner does not claim to have received such an award. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement, and has not 
claimed to meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7119142 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a scientist in the field of environmental science and engineering, seeks classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner established 
that he met only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which me must meet 
at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets up to three additional evidentiary criteria and is 
otherwise eligible for the benefit sought. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
I&N Dec. 53 7, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner did not meet three criteria. Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a lead analyst with.__ _________ __. where he has 
worked since 2011. He received his bachelor's degree in civil engineering at University ofO and 
completed his graduate studies au l where he received a master's degree 
in environmental engineering in 2002 and a Doctor of Philosophy in engineering and applied science 
in 2010. Previously, he served as a research associate atl I Training and Research Center and 
as a doctoral research fellow for the I I at~ The Petitioner 
indicates that he intends to establish a limited liability company and provide services in the area of 
environmental engineering and consulting. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets five of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x).1 The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating 
to participation as a judge of the work of others in his field, and authorship of scholarly articles. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The Petitioner has met the judging criterion by providing evidence 
that he has peer reviewed manuscripts for several professional publications, including Journal of Arid 
Environments, Asian Journal ofGeoi11formatics, and Journal of Agricultural Science and Technology. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published by scientific 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that he met a sixth criterion, relating to published materials (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)), 
but has not pursued this claim on appeal. Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not discuss this criterion. 
See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
journals including Journal of Arid Environments, Canadian Journal of Remote Sensing, GIScience & 
Remote Sensing, and Rangeland Ecology and Management. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or prizes, membership in associations that require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and original contributions of major significance, as discussed below. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not met a third criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner claims to meet this criterion based on his receipt of a Doctoral Research Fellowship 
from the~---------------~· In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that his prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes 
or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes 
or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner provided a copy of the award notification e-mail he received from I 
University, advising him that he was "awarded an .... l _________________ __. 
Subsurface Science Graduate Fellowship to support study leading to the Ph.D. in Engineering and 
Applied Science." The fellowship provided the Petitioner with an annual stipend of $25,000 and a 
waiver of the university's tuition and fees for a two-year period. The fellowship was offered with the 
understanding that the Petitioner's dissertation research would be in the general area of subsurface 
science. 
The Petitioner's initial cover letter also provided background inforation GD tbel I notjng that jf 
is a coalition of eight universities working in cooperation with the._ _____________ __._ 
The Petitioner described thel I fellowship as a "highly prestigious and competitive award" and 
stated that "[t]he candidates were judged on prior productivity and the novelty and potential of the 
proposed project. Only top 3% of the researchers from the eight universities received the award." 
However, the Petitioner did not submit any supporting evidence from the I I regarding the 
fellowship, the basis for granting the award, the number of recipients, and any limitations placed on 
potential recipients. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner of additional documentary 
evidence he could submit to establish that his I I fellowship satisfies this criterion, while noting 
that generally, honors such as fellowships are given to students or early career professionals in the 
field and may not qualify as prizes or awards for excellence. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner 
submitted: a document providing background information regarding thel I a February 200lc=] 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
News Release published on the website orf,.' -~-----------~-----------1 
announcin · · of a new director and a 2002 article titled '----~----' 
~------------------------~ published by Proceedings of 
the 2002 American Society for En~i1eering !Education Annual Conference and Exposition, which 
describes the partnership between the the□, and I I Of these documents, orly the I I I background document mentions the doctoral fellowship program, stating that the 
"allocated $1.4 million to highly qualified Ph.D. students for multiple-year stipends ($25,000 each 
year, equivalent to an NSF doctoral fellowship, plus $10,000 for tuition/fees and laboratory support), 
beginning fall 2002." 
In a letter accompanying the RFE response, former counsel stated that there was "no precise 
information available about the number of applicants" for thel I fellowship, but noted that, in 
addition to the graduate student applicants from the eight member universities of thel I "it is 
estimated that approximately 2,000 researchers from I I and D were competing for the 
award." Counsel further stated that "thel I fellowship is similar to NSF Fellowship which means 
I I funds the person, notl the prlject.~ [Petitioner] was competing for this award among the 
researchers ... that included andl__Jscientists and not just the students." 
However, as noted, the RFE response lacked supporting documentation to corroborate counsel's claim 
that thel !fellowship was not limited to graduate students. Assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record 
with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and declarations. The limited documentation 
submitted regarding the fellowship program, from the I I's own publication, indicates that the D fellowship was established for Ph.D. students. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that he competed against I I andD scientists for his 
fellowship award and not just other graduate students from the eightl I consortium universities. 
He indicates that he is submitting evidence of the application process for the I I fellowship 
program, but this ~e is not included with the a eal exhibits. He also states that he is submitting 
"an opinion ofthel__J program" from otj I University, who, according to 
the Petitioner, indicates that "the .__ _ _.fe ows Ip IS equivalent to National Science Foundation 
fellowships." The submitted "opinion" froml I is a news release published """on~th=e ____ __. 
University website, noting that two Ph.D. students from that university received an~-~ fellowship 
in 2016. While he states that the fellowships are "equivalent to National Science Foundation 
fellowships," that statement appears to refer to the amount of the stipend ($25,000 annually). 
The Petitioner has not submitted independent evidence from thel !regarding the number of 
applicants, the scope of the field of eligible applicants, the criteria used for selection, and the number 
of fellowships granted annually. The limited evidence in the record reflects that the program accepts 
applications from graduate students enrolled at the eight universities that form thd I but does not 
substantiate the Petitioner's claims tlat eliribility extends to professional research scientists working 
for the I I's partners I I and . 
Although the fellowship may be recognized atl I by the other members of thel I and by O's partner organizations, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the fellowship, which consists 
4 
of a stipend to conduct graduate research, qualifies as a prize or award for excellence in the field. The 
Petitioner did not show the field's national or international recognition of this fellowship. As noted by 
the Director, such honors are generally given to students or early career professionals and inherently 
exclude established experts and professionals from consideration. Moreover, academic awards and 
honors received while preparing for a vocation generally do not constitute nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his membership in Sigma Xi, a scientific 
research society with 60,000 members worldwide. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must 
show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.4 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from Sigma Xi confirming that he was duly elected as a "full member" 
in 2016, as well as a copy of Sigma Xi's constitution and bylaws. The letter explains that membership 
in Sigma Xi is by nomination only and that "[ f]ull membership is conferred upon those who have 
demonstrated noteworthy achievements in research." The Sigma Xi bylaws define "noteworthy 
achievement" as follows: 
Noteworthy achievement in research specified for election or promotion to full 
membership ... must be evidenced by publications, patents, written reports or a thesis 
or dissertation. Membership in the Society is neither linked to the possession of any 
degree nor contingent upon belonging to some other organization. 
The accompanying letter further clarifies that "Sigma Xi interprets 'noteworthy achievement' to 
include primary authorship of two papers ('Paper' includes refereed journal articles, patents, or 
internal reports. An earned doctoral degree may be substituted for one paper)." In addition, the letter 
indicates that "[t]he Society also considers career preparation, career path, quality of research and 
similar factors." 
The Director determined that the association bylaws do not reflect that Sigma Xi requires outstanding 
achievements as a requirement for membership, or that it relies on recognized national or 
internationally experts to determine which individuals qualify for membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision demonstrates a lack of understanding of 
the membership process. He explains that he self-nominated through the "Committee on 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 
Qualifications on Membership," which consists of "members who have shown outstanding 
achievements themselves." The Petitioner maintains that he "was selected based on [his] outstanding 
achievement" stating that "[ e ]ven though bylaws demand noteworthy achievements of members, as 
an original investigator in a field of pure or applied science, they also warrant outstanding 
achievements for the foll membership." Finally, he refers to his membership letter signed by Sigma 
Xi leadership, emphasizing that it states: "We are proud that your outstanding achievements have 
earned you a place within our international community of scientists and engineers." 
Reviewed in its totality, the evidence does not demonstrate that membership in Sigma Xi requires 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the Petitioner's 
field or discipline. First, the Petitioner has not shown that Sigma Xi's requirement that prospective 
members provide evidence of "noteworthy achievement in research" is tantamount to imposing an 
"outstanding achievement" requirement for membership. While the letter from Sigma Xi indicates 
that the association "considers career preparation, career path, quality of research and similar factors" 
in the membership process, this statement is not adequately supported by objective evidence of how 
these factors are considered or weighed. The record does not establish the process by which 
prospective members are evaluated, nor does it demonstrate that Sigma Xi imposes additional 
qualitative criteria that amount to an "outstanding achievement" requirement. 
Sigma Xi's constitution states that procedures related to the nomination, election and promotion of 
members are set forth in its bylaws; however, the bylaws, at section 3, only state that "[t]he Committee 
designated by the Board will have responsibility to set policy regarding nomination, election, and 
initiation procedures" and that "[ c ]hanges in policy will be communicated to chapters for a comment 
period." Neither the constitution nor the bylaws state what the nomination and election policies are 
or who is responsible for electing or promoting members. While the Petitioner refers to his self­
nomination through a Committee on Qualifications on Membership and states that these committee 
members "have shown outstanding achievements themselves," the supporting evidence does not 
describe this self-nomination process, the existence of this committee, or criteria for selection to the 
committee. For these reasons, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not 
establish that his membership in Sigma Xi satisfies this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also emphasizes that he previously provided evidence that he was invited to 
serve as an "Editorial Member" of Bioinfo Publications and as a permanent reviewer of Journal of 
Spatial Hydrology. The Petitioner's invitation from Bioinfo Publications states that the company "is 
interested to associate with well qualified people to increase the reach in the scientific research 
committee." The Petitioner does not provide any additional evidence regarding the selection process 
for membership on the company's editorial board. Nor did he provide evidence that Bioinfo 
Publications, a publishing company, or the Journal of Spatial Hydrology, a professional publication, 
are "associations" in his field that requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. The Petitioner's activities as a peer reviewer and editorial 
board member have been considered under the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) but they 
do not satisfy the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
6 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. Here, the Petitioner indicates that he has made multiple original contributions of major 
significance in the field of environmental science and engineering, specifically with respect to his 
research related to geographic information systems (GIS) and groundwater contamination. 
The first of these contributions is the Petitioner's ublication of a comprehensive model of 
groundwater I I concentrations in The Petitioner provided a 
letter from ~ professor '----.---------'---.who states that the Petitioner's was the first 
comprehensive study to evaluat _._ ______ ...,, its transport into groundwater, and its potential 
I I in that region. He explains that the Petitioner, through his research, "developed a new 
methodology for studying.__ _____ _. on rocks and sediments using I I 
water and liquid scintillation (LSC) method." I I concludes that the Petitioner's research 
"provided insights into an issue that has many people concerned" and "made a significant impact in 
the research community." However, he does not elaborate as to how the Petitioner's study impacted 
the wider research community or why that impact is regarded as majorly significant. 
The Petitioner also provided letters from individuals in the health care field who comment on his 
groundwaten research project.I I a services coordinator at I l states that the Petitioner's "techniques and models can be applied.__to-s-im-1-.l-ar_g_e_o_l_l_g1-·c_.l 
settings all over the U.S. to determine I land consequentially! I potential of the region." I ~ an assistant professor I I at University of I 1 1 I Medical Center, states 
that the Petitioner's research "significantly impacted the field because of his groundbreaking 
innovation of a low-cost system to study adsorption ofc=]onto different substances" noting that his 
findings are "absolutely critical to protecting public health and furthering the national interest 
generally." I I also states that the groundwater! I maps the Petitioner 
created "constitute a distinguished achievement of enduring impact on the field" because they 
"substantially deepen our understanding of the spatial distribution ofBfrom a specific geologic 
setting perspective." He concludes that the Petitioner's "work on greatly furthers I I 
research, especially with regard to using information systems." 
Finally, I I ofl I states that he intended to use the 
Petitioner's "pioneering work to Troduce correlation maps for I I and the local geology for 
some parts of the United States." lstates that the Petitioner's approach "is expected to assist 
health professionals like me to identify and treat health issues caused by natural hydrogeologic 
conditions." 
The testimonial evidence confirms the ori inalit of the techniques used by the Petitioner to accurately 
,..........---~--.----_.groundwater I land explains the public 
health concerns of such.__ ____ ~ However, the letters do not explain how the Petitioner's 
research techniques have been widely implemented throughout the field or how his research has 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, such that we can determine that he is recognized for 
making a contribution of major significance. The submitted letters, for example, do not indicate that 
7 
the Petitioner's study has been extensively cited or discussed in the scientific community5 or that his 
techniques have been widely implemented. The letters sugrst that the Petitioner's techniques could 
prove useful in measuring groundwater! in other geographic areas and under other 
geologic conditions, but they do not indicate that others have used his findings to perform such studies 
or have relied on his findings to benefit public health. 
The Petitioner also claims that he has "produced pioneering work in the subfield of GIS and remote 
sensing research" during his time as a research associate a~ l's GIS Training and Research 
Center, where he worked on several studies funded by NASA grants. I I ofLJ 
states that the Petitioner "develo ed an innovative health model by utilizing I I 
'----------------------------------' techniques" which he 
states are "proven to be benchmark not only in the field of GIS and remote sensing but in various other 
branches of engineering." I I describes the Petitioner's original technique as "invaluable" 
for researchers and land managers as it is "the only technique in all of the research literature capable 
of detecting! I with great accuracy, thereby assisting inl I eradication." 
He also explains that the Petitioner was "the first researcher to demonstrate the bare ground model's 
ability to depict overall! I health index," noting that he was asked to present his original paper 
at the '----------------------~ .__ ____________ _. 
International Conference." While he discusses the novelty and value of the Petitioner's models and 
techniques and indicates that there has been interest in the research,! lhas not explained 
how these techniques have been regarded in the field as particularly impactful or influential, such that 
they are deemed to be of major significance . 
.__ ____ ___.I a professor at th.....__ _______ ---,-________ __,_"""'inec......::a:C""'h""'in~a::.,,..,,sesc:::ta::..::t""'es"--""th~a=-.t 
he cited the Petitioner's 2006 co-authored re ort ' 
'------------r---------,----------------" " in his own study of 
detection thresholds for .__ _____ _. m He further indicates that the 
Petitioner's research has been "successfully applied into developin._._ ___ _.health models forc=J 
.__ ____ _.I systems in USA and similar areas of the world such as China" and states that it has 
helped "not only researchers . . . but also helped land managers, farmers and ranchers effectively 
manage their land for detection and eradication o~ I as well as for improving quality of 
the I I" Although I I generally discusses real world applications of the Petitioner's 
research, the record as a whole, as discussed further below, does not support his claim that the 
Petitioner's research has had a worldwide impact on I I health or that it is relied on by land 
managers and others to the extent that the Petitioner has been recognized for original contributions of 
major significance. 
The Petitioner also rovided a letter from associate professor at the '----------~ 
University of.......,.------,---' who discusses two of th,;;..e_N_A____;;;S_A_re.;;..,;;_'---'-....i;;..;.;u....;;.b_li....;;.c..;..;.at.;_i..;;_o_n.;;_s ....;;.c..;;_o_;-a..;..;u"""t_h..;;_or_;e;_;;d.;...b-'-'--, 
the Petitioner. states that the ublication 
" was valuable because it identified '--------------------------~ the "vegetation indices to be used for mapping th__._ ___ __. as well as the bare ground present in the 
5 We note that the Petitioner's 2010 article'.__ ________________________ ~ 
I [" had been cited five times when the petition was filed in 2018, according to the Google Scholar citation 
history provided. 
8 
study area." He further explains that the Petitioner's original work has been used for the development of 
the "comprehensive automated geospatial model forl lin the state o~ land I ~ and indicates that the Petitioner's approach for data collection has informed his own 
model development research. Finally,! lof the University of D who indicates 
that he collaborated with the Petitioner on a 2009 study and states that he has been personally influenced 
by the Petitioner's "innovative ideas regarding identification of bare ground and consequentially 
desertification.__ ________ ___,." I I states that the Petitioner's contributions are "of 
critical importance to the future of our perceptions abou~ !research." 
The submitted letters praise the Petitioner for his technical abilities and explain the originality of the 
techniques he used in the field of GIS and remote sensing, particularly as applied to I I and 
bare ground topologies. However, they do not contain information that demonstrates how the 
Petitioner's findings have been recognized as majorly significant in the field. While some of the letters 
mention that the Petitioner's work has resulted in real world applications, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence of this impact to support a finding that the Petitioner's work is regarded as 
remarkably impactful. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that 
lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the 
basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
These letters, as well as other evidence in the record, show that the Petitioner's original work has 
added value to the pool of knowledge in his field and provided novel techniques for combining existing 
methods to improve the accuracy of mapping and measurements for remote sensing applications. The 
evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of attention received by his research reflects 
widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the field of environmental science or any 
of its sub-fields have regarded his research as authoritative and highly influential. 
In addition, the Petitioner has provided his curriculum vitae with a list of his publications and a citation 
index from Google Scholar documenting how often his publications have been cited. Publications are 
not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." 
We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "8 
According to the Petitioner's curriculum vitae, he published eight peer-reviewed journal articles 
between 2009 and 2013, and co-authored 13 "NASA reports" identified as "report articles prepared 
under NASA grants" between 2006 and 2011. Not all of these journal publications and published 
reports appear on his Google Scholar citation index. At the time of filing in 2018, the Petitioner's 
most-cited article had 31 citations, one had 15, another had 10, and the remaining 6 articles or reports 
with citations had between 3 and 8 citations each. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
8 Id. 
9 
An appropriate analysis of the Petitioner's citation index would be to compare his citations for individual 
articles to other articles that the field views as highly cited and having been of major significance, as 
well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. The Petitioner has not provided comparative data 
showing that any one of his publications would be considered highly cited in his field. The citation 
numbers provided, without this comparative information for context, do not reflect that his research has 
been extensively discussed by other scientists and researchers. Although his citations show that the 
Petitioner's research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
number of citations to his individual papers demonstrate their "major significance." 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends that he has worked on projects that were fonded by NASA research 
grants. However, receiving fonding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in­
and-of-itself. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or similar fonding are 
reflective of his past works' major significance, or the research he conducted with the fonding resulted 
in contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the evidence shows that the Petitioner co­
authored 13 reports for NASA. However, according to the Petitioner's Google Scholar citation index, 
only two of these reports received any citations, and the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his findings 
described in these or other reports resulted in significant contribution of major significance. In 
addition, he did not show how the NASA fonding reflected the importance of his past contributions to 
the overall field or that his involvement as a research associate on the fonded projects came as a result 
of such contributions. Finally, we note that the record does not indicate or document whether the 
Petitioner himself played a key role in obtaining NASA grant fonding while atD 
Further, the Petitioner ar ues that his research has received media covera e. The record contains 
evidence that Integration, " re orted on the 
"completion and validation of a~.....,,...-~health model for parts o _______ ~" The article 
credits the Petitioner with building the model and states that it "makes an important stride toward 
providin~ !managers with geo-spatial decision support tools." The Petitioner farther provided 
evidence that I Is marketing and communications department published an article 
hi hli htin the Petitioner's co-authored paper in which he concluded that ~------~ 
~------------.....----~-'_T_h_e_a_rt__,icle acknowledges the Petitioner as the study's co-
author, but contains quotes from~ _____ __, the study's other author and the director of the 
university's GIS Training and Research Center. The article indicates that 'j ~ study has 
shown that ~------~ can increase soil moisture, leading to more grass and increased 
biomass," which can, in tum, have a meaningful impact on water conservation in thel I 
of rurall ~he Petitioner did not show that media coverage by his own university is indicative of 
his original contributions of major significance in the field. For example, he did not demonstrate that 
his research and findings generated interest from publications outside of his institution. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
10 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7185764 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability.1 See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 2 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 The approval of a prior petition, filed by a previous employer and disclosed on the current petition form, granted the 
Beneficiary a lower-priority immigrant classification. 
2 We note the involvement of an attorney in preparing the appeal. The appeal, however, did not include a new Form G-28, 
Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative. Therefore , we consider the Petitioner to be 
without representation on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.3(a)(2)(v)(A)(2) , 292.4(a); see also the instructions to Form G-28, 
available online at https:/ /www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/ g-28instr.pdf. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, which develops technology for self-driving vehicles, seeks to employ the Beneficiary as 
a software engineer. After Trninfc a master's degree in computer science, the Beneficiary worked as a 
senior firmware engineer for Corporation from 2011 to 2015; as head of platform software atD I I Inc., from 2015 to 2017; and as a senior embedded systems engineer from 2017 to 2018. The 
Petitioner hired the Beneficiary as a senior software engineer in 2018, and intends to continue that 
employment. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets three criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Beneficiary met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to contributions 
and remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the third claimed 
criterion relating to leading or critical roles. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets this third claimed criterion. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner notes that the Beneficiary served as head of device software at I I Inc., "leading 
an engineering team of 38 engineers." The device software team, by itseit: is not an organization or 
establishment in its own right. The Petitioner has not explained how leading the team constitutes a leading 
or critical role for I O I as an organization. Without further evidence and information, the 
Beneficiary's leadership of that team does not suffice to show a leading or critical role in the overall 
company. Furthermore, the record does not document the size of that company or show where the 
Beneficiary stood in the organizational hierarchy. 
The Petitioner contends that, while the evidence about the Beneficiary's work emphasizes specific 
projects, those projects were so essential to the companies' reputations and product lines that their 
outcomes were critical to the respective companies. For example, one of the Petitioner's former 
employersJ I makes cameras and related software to create three-dimensional virtual tours of 
real estate properties. I Is chief technology officer states: 
Faced with unprecedented demand for our D cameras, there were not enough I I sensors available in order to meet this market demand .... 
[The Beneficiary] tirelessly worked with different sensor vendors in the market to 
determine which sensor could be used for theO cameras . . . . [The Beneficiary] 
became I I's main point of contact, who interfaced with the sensor vendor's 
software team and spearheaded the development of the specialized software for the new 
sensor in order to ensure that th0 cameras could be shipped with this new sensor. 
.... Without [the Beneficiary's] extraordinary and critical work,I lcould have 
lost tens of millions [ of] dollars, along with suffering a severe hit to our reputation if we 
had not been able to manufacture these high-demand cameras. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary's central role in specific projects does not 
translate to a leading or critical role at the companies where he worked on those projects. Complex 
projects of the type described in the record require competent and effective contributions from many 
individuals, but the Beneficiary's innovations and problem-solving skills are not inherently leading or 
critical roles for the organization as a whole. 
The Director concluded that the Beneficiary had made original scientific contributions of major 
significance in the field. Those contributions, however, do not also imply a leading or critical role when 
the Beneficiary's own employers benefit from his work. Otherwise, the two criteria (relating, 
respectively, to contributions and to leading or critical roles) would effectively collapse into one another, 
contrary to the regulatory intent of requiring diverse types of evidence and the statutory requirement for 
extensive documentation. The value of the Beneficiary's contributions, to his employer and to the broader 
field, are not necessarily commensurate with the nature of his role within a given organization. 
3 
The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria cannot change 
the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we need not revisit the Director's findings regarding the other 
two criteria. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary has earned a level of 
recognition indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
To establish a reputation outside of the companies that have employed the Beneficiary, the Petitioner 
submitted what it called "testimonial letters from independent references," specifically officials of 
companies that have not employed the Beneficiary. The record, however, documents the Beneficiary's 
connections to most of those companies (such as supervising a team of contractors from one such 
company). The letters, therefore, are not strong evidence that the Beneficiary's reputation extends 
significantly beyond his own past and present employers and their contractors and clients. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6524047 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a management analyst, as an alien of 
extraordinary ability.1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 The record does not formally designate the Beneficiary as the Petitioner's client, but, as the Petitioner notes, "any person" 
may file a petition to classify a given beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 1 ). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of the beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that the beneficiary meets 
at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary seeks "to continue working in the field of Healthcare Strategy 
and Effectiveness, supporting providers (hospitals), payors (insurance companies), and life sciences 
companies to deliver value based care to millions of their customers in the United States." The 
Beneficiary previously worked as an application manager 8tl ) At the time of filing in 
February 2019, he was a strategy manager atl ~and the Petitio~ 
that the Benefici7 "plans to continue working atl ; More recently,L___J I filed a nonimmigrant petition on the Beneficiary's behalf The nonimmigrant status 
granted to the Beneficiary by the March 2019 approval of that petition authorized the Beneficiary to work 
only for I 1.2 The appeal, filed in May 2019, after the change in employment, does 
not mention that change or address how it will affect the Beneficiary's future work in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets four criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 274a.12(b )(9). Part 4, line 8 of the petition form asked whether any other immigrant petitions had been 
filed by the Beneficiary or on his behalf. The Petitioner answered "yes," and provided information about one other petition, 
stating that a notice of intent to deny had been issued in September 2018. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCTS) records show that the petition in question was denied in November 2018, three months before the preparation and 
filing of the present petition. USCT~ records also,.iden.J;ity three other prior immigrant petitions that the Petitioner did not 
disclose on the petition form. Both I andL_J previously filed immigrant petitions on the Beneficiary's behalf, 
seeking lower-priority classifications. Both petitions were approved, in 2015 and 2017 respectively, several years before 
the filing of the present petition. 
2 
The Director found that the Petitioner showed that the Beneficiary met the criteria numbered (iv) and 
(ix), relating to judging and remuneration, respectively. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Beneficiary also meets the criteria numbered (v) and (viii), relating to contributions and leading or 
critical roles, respectively. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director 
that the Beneficiary meets only two evidentiary criteria. We address the other two claimed criteria 
below. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is ( or was) a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. 3 If a critical role, the evidence 
must establish that the alien has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of 
the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered "critical" if the alien's 
performance in the role is (or was) important in that way. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather 
the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. 4 
~oner contends that the Beneficiary has perlormed in both leatg jd critical roles roOand 
L___J The Director did not dispute the distinguished reputations of andl I but concluded 
that the Petitioner had not shown that the Beneficiary's role was "leading or critical to 
~--------~s] and .__ ______ ___. as a whole, as opposed to his department or 
component within it." 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's position as director of strategy and effectiveness 
constituted a leading and critical role for ~ and that previously submitted "letters describe the 
Beneficiary's role and affect [sic] in very specific terms." Most of the letters in question were fromD 
officials; one was from an insurance company executive, and one was from a faculty member of a medical 
school. 
The record shows that the Beneficiary played a significant role inc=:Js projects on behalf of several 
clients in the health care industry, including insurance companies and a medical school. Other participants 
attested that the Beneficiary played an important role in these projects, but the record does rot pTvide 
the sense of scale necessary to show that the Beneficiary's role was leading or critical for as an 
organization, and not just for the individual projects. 
A given project is not, itself: an organization or establishment, and the record does not show that the 
Beneficiary was sufficiently high in Os organizational hierarchy to have a significant effect on the 
company as a whole, rather than the subdivision that works with clients in the health care industry. The 
Petitioner states, on appeal, that the Beneficiary "has established the organizational structure and 
hierarchy of the company," but the Petitioner does not elaborate or identify the record evidence that would 
corroborate this assertion. 
3 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, IO (Dec. 22, 2010). 
http://www. uscis. gov /legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 Id. 
3 
The Beneficiary's prior work as a senior consultant and application manager atl I appears to have 
had a similarly narrow focus. The only specific project detailed in the record is a health benefit exchange 
for small business owners in Kentucky. The Beneficiary managed a team of consultants, but this team is 
not, by itself, an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
The submitted information shows that the Beneficiary has led individual projects, but those projects are 
not organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. The record supports the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role 
forc=]andl le rather than for subdivisions or projects thereof). 
New letters submitted on appeal also support that conclusion, attesting to the importance of the 
Beneficiary's role but doing so in the context of projects for specific clients. The letters indicate that the 
Beneficiary's work was profitable for the company, in terms of both revenue and savings, but do not 
indicate the significance of the Beneficiary's financial impact relative to the entire organization. Some 
letters cite sums between $10 million and $18 million, but another letter in the record indicates that~ 
an~ leach report annual revenues in excess of $40 billion. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has the beneficiary made 
original contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
In an effort to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner relied on the same letters cited as support the claim of 
performance in a leading or critical role. In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the submitted 
letters, but concluded that those letters do not show "substantial influence beyond one's employer, clients, 
or customers." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the letters in the record "not only describe [the Beneficiary's] work 
as original but point to how they have changed the way things are done in the industry after he started 
them." The examples cited on appeal, however, are not industry-wide. Ac=Jofficial quoted on appeal 
states that the Beneficiary's work "sav[ed] the company millions of dollars," while al !official 
refers to the Beneficiary's impact on "several [health care] providers in the commonwealth of Kentucky." 
The samel bfficial asserts that "several frameworks and advances in the field ofTp-dowl cloud­
based technical stack transformations pioneered by [the Beneficiary] during his tenure at is [sic] 
being used at dozens of ongoing transformations" within the company. 
4 
The regulatory standard is major significance in the field, rather than significance to a particular employer 
or its clients. The record shows that the Beneficiary has successfully delivered results to results, to the 
mutual benefit of the clients and his employers, but the successful completion of a project is not 
intrinsically of major significance to the field. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide enough 
information to show that the Beneficiary's participation in these projects entailed original contributions 
rather than application of existing practices and principles. Assertions that the Beneficiary led a number 
of such projects do not provide key details about the nature of the Beneficiary's own contributions to 
those projects (as opposed to his oversight of teams performing that work). 
A data scientist atl I asserts that the Beneficiary "pioneered" "the proprietary ._I ______ _. 
.__ _____ ___,IPlatform," which "offers a powerful new model for improving health care quality." 
This individual states that "[l]eading health care providers around the world are embracing this new 
operating model," although he does not identify the providers by name, and he contends that "the next 
generation version of [the Beneficiary's] platform" will result in a 19% reduction in average hospital 
length-of-stay, with "a lower percentage of readmissions." Uncorroborated anecdotes and speculation 
about the potential future impact of the Beneficiary's work cannot suffice to show that the Beneficiary's 
work has had the impact and influence necessary to show major significance. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. We note 
that the record does not adequately attest to the Beneficiary's acclaim beyond his employers and some of 
their clients. Subjective assessments of the Beneficiary's talents do not necessarily reflect a consensus 
throughout the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7723069 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a business executive , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center approved the petition, but later revoked that approval on 
notice, under the provisions of section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, and 8 C.F.R. § 205.2. The 
Director concluded that the petition had been approved in error, and that the Petitioner had provided 
conflicting information to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The Director 
determined that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in 
revocation proceedings . Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Cheung, 12 I&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1968); and Matter of Es time, 19 l&N Dec. 450, 452, n.1 (BIA 1987). Upon de nova review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
A. The Classification Sought 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
B. Revocation of an Approved Petition 
Section 205 of the Act states: "The Secretary of Homeland Security may, at any time, for what he deems 
to be good and sufficient cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204. 
Such revocation shall be effective as of the date of approval of any such petition." 
Regarding the revocation of an immigrant petition under section 205 of the Act, the Board oflmmigration 
Appeals has stated: 
In Matter of Es time ... , this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa petition 
is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record at the time 
the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial of the visa 
petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof The decision to 
revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the decision is rendered, 
including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner in rebuttal to the notice 
of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
2 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) ( quoting Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. at 452). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Prior to her 2015 entry into the United States as an F-1 nonimmigrant student, the Petitioner was 
deputy general manager and board secretary of.__ ______ _. The Petitioner does not claim any 
subsequent employment in the United States. At the time of filing, the Petitioner was studying for a 
master's degree in accounting, and she indicated that she was on a leave of absence froml I The 
Petitioner indicates that she plans to work as a consultant to thd I industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria numbered (i), (viii), and 
(ix). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has met the two 
criteria granted by the Director, and a third criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) calls for evidence that the alien has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The record 
establishes thatl I has a distinguished reputation as a major company in its field, and 
that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for the company as a member of its board of 
directors. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that she satisfies three criteria, we need not individually discuss 
the additional claimed criteria. We will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final 
merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
3 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
Complicating our consideration of the record, the Petitioner, through her current attorney of record, 
does not folly endorse the evidence submitted prior to the appeal. As we will farther discuss below, 
present counsel contends that the evidence was prepared without the Petitioner's foll participation and 
awareness, and that the Petitioner signed documents that she did not understand because of her limited 
comprehension of English. (As one example, the petition form shows a residential address in I I Delaware. On appeal, present counsel asserts that the Petitioner has never lived in 
Delaware.) A petitioner's signature on the petition form is an attestation, under penalty of perjury, 
that the submitted evidence is true and correct. Present counsel's attempts to qualify this attestation 
necessarily reduce our confidence in the evidence submitted. 
This vague, partial disavowal of prior submissions is of particular concern with regard to certain claims 
that are supported only by English-language letters written specifically to support the petition, rather 
than objective documentation. 
The Petitioner held a high-ranking position at a major company, but her title and responsibility do not 
necessarily translate into acclaim or place her at the top of her field. ~ chairman states that the 
Petitioner "was a super star among board secretaries, especially inc=J Province." The statute 
requires sustained national or international acclaim. Recognition at the provincial level does not meet 
this threshold. 
Shanghai Securities News gave the Petitioner a 'I !Award" as one of25 "Outstanding 
I I of Listed Companies" in 2009. 2 Later, the Petitioner served on the selection 
committee for another award from that publication in 2012. Shanghai is outside! !Province, and 
thus honors from a Shanghai newspaper can indicate recognition beyond the provincial level, but the 
record does not show the significance of the I IA ward. As noted, the paper named 
25 winners of the same award, and a printout from the paper shows dozens of recipients of other 
awards such as the "Investor Relations Award" and the "Information Disclosure Award." Information 
about the reputation and circulation of Shanghai Securities News does not directly establish the 
significance of awards from that publication. 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 Questions arise from background information submitted with the petition, indicating that a board secretary is not ~ligible I 
for the award if "his/her employment with the company is less than 2 years." The Petitioner's employment wit 
began in 2009, the same year for which she won the award. 
4 
The record indicates that the Petitioner served in important positions atc=Jand at other companies, 
and was compensated accordingly, but it does not show that this work translated to sustained national 
or international acclaim. High-ranking corporate positions are a favorable factor but are not 
presumptive evidence that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner has written published scholarly articles in journals relating to business management, 
but the record does not establish that these articles have had a significant impact (for instance, by 
widely influencing and improving management practices). The Petitioner served on a journal's 
editorial board, but the record does not show that this position either resulted from, or contributed to, 
acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). By the same logic, 
a high-ranking position at a large company does not result in a presumption of eligibility. Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown the required sustained national or international acclaim or established a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record indicates that the Petitioner had a 
successful career in business in Hunan Province, but the evidence is not sufficient to place her among 
the small percentage at the very top of her field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner's apparent unemployment since 2015 diminishes her claim that she has 
sustained whatever acclaim she may have previously earned in business. 
C. Derogatory Information 
In addition to issues regarding the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the Director found that 
the Petitioner provided conflicting information to USCIS and the U.S. Department of State regarding 
her experience and salary. The Director did not make a finding that the Petitioner committed fraud or 
willfully misrepresented material facts. Rather, the Director found that the Petitioner's conflicting 
assertions undermined her credibility. See Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591. 
Because we have already concluded that the Petitioner has not established sustained national or 
international acclaim, as required, detailed discussion of this additional issue cannot change the 
outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue and need not discuss the details here. 
We will note, however, that the Petitioner attributes any apparent discrepancies to "negligence and 
inadequate representation by previous counsel," as well as "misrepresentation and fraud by an 
individual" who "posed as a US attorney." 
5 
The Board of Immigration Appeals established a framework for asserting and assessing claims of 
ineffective assistance of counsel. See Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. 63 7 (BIA 1988), aff'd, 857 F .2d 
10 (1st Cir. 1988). 
First, Lozada sets forth the following threshold documentary requirements for asserting a claim of 
ineffective assistance: 
• A written affidavit of the petitioner attesting to the relevant facts. The affidavit should provide 
a detailed description of the agreement with former counsel (i.e., the specific actions that 
counsel agreed to take), the specific actions actually taken by former counsel, and any 
representations that former counsel made about his or her actions. 
• Evidence that the petitioner informed former counsel of the allegation of ineffective assistance 
and was given an opportunity to respond. Any response by prior counsel ( or report of former 
counsel's failure or refusal to respond) should be submitted with the claim. 
• If the petitioner asserts that the handling of the case violated former counsel's ethical or legal 
responsibilities, evidence that the petitioner filed a complaint with the appropriate disciplinary 
authorities ( e.g., with a state bar association) or an explanation why the petitioner did not file 
a complaint. 
Id. at 639. These documentary requirements are designed to ensure we possess the essential 
information necessary to evaluate ineffective assistance claim and to deter meritless claims. Id. 
Allowing former counsel to present their version of events discourages baseless allegations, and the 
requirement of a complaint to the appropriate disciplinary authorities is intended to eliminate any 
incentive for counsel to collude with their client in disparaging the quality of the representation. 
We may deny a claim of ineffective assistance if any of the Lozada threshold documentary 
requirements are not met. Castillo-Perez v. INS, 212 F.3d 518, 525 (9th Cir. 2000). 
In this instance, the Petitioner has not met any of the above conditions ( and the appeal includes no 
explicit reference to Lozada). The appeal includes a statement from the Petitioner's new attorney, but 
no affidavit from the Petitioner herself. New counsel states his intention to file a complaint, but the 
record does not show that any complaint has been filed. New counsel does not say whether or not he 
has advised prior counsel of the allegations of misconduct. 
Absent the required elements of a Lozada claim, we are left with new counsel's unsubstantiated claims 
about the conduct of prior counsel and his associate. Unsupported assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The revocation of the previously approved petition is affirmed for the above stated reasons. The 
burden of proof to establish eligibility for the benefit sought remains with the petitioner in revocation 
G 
proceedings. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Cheung, 12 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 
1968); and Matter of Estime, 19 l&N Dec. at 452, n. l (BIA 1987). The Petitioner has not met that 
burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7401290 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, she did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After earning her Doctor of Medicine degree, the Petitioner served in a clinical rotation at Children's 
Hospital ofl I and a residency atl I Children's Hospital, before undertaking a 
postdoctoral clinical and research fellowshi= at Children's Medical Cente~ I. After nearly a year 
as chief of the Division of Pediatrid I and assistant professor of Pediatrics at the 
~niversi'J of I I the Petitioner seived as a consltlant an~ jest faculty at Children's Hospital 
i India. The Petitioner now practices medicine at Health's clinic inl I 
Iowa, and is a clinical assistant professor at the University of 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Prior to the denial, the Petitioner claimed to have satisfied eight of the ten 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
2 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the four criteria numbered (iv), (v), (vi), and (viii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also satisfied criterion (i). The Petitioner does not contest the 
Director's conclusions regarding the other previously claimed criteria, and therefore we consider those 
issues to be abandoned. 1 Because the Director found that the Petitioner met more than three of the 
evidentiary criteria, the denial notice includes a final merits determination. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied only two of 
the regulatory criteria, as explained below. Because the Director had proceeded to a final merits 
determination, we will address the related issues after discussing the basic evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner did not initially claim any awards, but later she received a ~--------~ 
Champion Award from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The Petitioner received this 
award in late c=]20l 9, nearly a year after the petition's May 2018 filing date. Therefore, it cannot 
establish eligibility as of the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As such, we need not discuss this 
award further. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion through her 
participation in peer review for scholarly journals. The significance of this judging activity is an issue for 
the final merits determination. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
1 See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att); Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. l998);seealsoHristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. 
Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
The Director concluded, without comment, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
The Petitioner stated that the citations to her published work show her worldwide influence. The 
Petitioner places particular emphasis on a citation to her work in guidelines published by the World Health 
Organization (WHO). The record contains incomplete information about this citation. Some of the 
submitted WHO documentation is in French with no translation. The Petitioner submits a copy of a 
bibliography page from the WHO publication, showing that her article is one of hundreds cited in the 
WHO guidelines. But the Petitioner did not establish the context of the citation by submitting the portion 
of the document that contained that citation. Without this information, we cannot distinguish between a 
citation that highlights the importance and impact of the Petitioner's work and a citation that mentions 
the Petitioner's work in passing as background information. The Petitioner does not show that the WHO' s 
guidelines only cite source material of major significance in the field. Furthermore, the significance of a 
particular article by the Petitioner is not necessarily proportional to the reputation of the highest-profile 
entity citing that article. 
The Petitioner states that "her research has been cited 62 times as well as ... downloaded hundreds of 
times," but does not show that this level of attention is consistent with major significance in the field. We 
note that the figure of 62 citations is the cumulative total for all of her published work at the time of filing. 
At that time, her most-cited article had amassed 17 citations over eight years. The Petitioner seeks 
consideration of these figures but does not establish their significance. 
A printout from Altmetric indicates that one of the Petitioner's articles earned an "Altmetric Attention 
Score of 2," which is an "Above-average Attention Score compared to outputs of the same age (55th 
percentile)." "Above-average," however, is not the same as major significance. By definition, nearly 
half of all published research falls above the cited threshold of the 55th percentile. The Petitioner did not 
submit Altmetric attention scores for any of her other articles. 
Letters in the record attest to the "immense value" of the Petitioner's research, but the record lacks 
objective, documentary support for the claims about the extent of the Petitioner's recognition and impact 
in her field. The letters describe various diseases and how the Petitioner's published research relates to 
those diseases, but they do not show how the Petitioner's work has had major significance, for example 
by changing treatment protocols resulting in better outcomes, or allowing for earlier or more reliable 
diagnoses. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, use as advisory 
opinions statements from universities, professional organizations, or other sources submitted in 
evidence as expert testimony. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). 
However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a foreign 
national's eligibility. The submission ofletters from experts supporting the petition is not presumptive 
evidence of eligibility. Id. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion through the publication of several 
scholarly articles. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director concluded, without comment, that the Petitioner had satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
The Petitioner claims that she satisfies this criterion through her employment, as well as editorial positions 
with various journals. The Petitioner adds that she "has been invited to be the American Academy of 
Pediatrics! !Champion for Infectious Diseases," but the regulation requires "[ e ]vidence that 
the alien has performed in a leading or critical role." An invitation for future participation does not 
suffice. 
The Petitioner's peer review work has been considered as evidence of judging the work of others under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has not shown that her efforts as a peer reviewer have been 
leading or critical for the various publishers, rather than routine, lower-level quality control. 
Some journals refer to the Petitioner as a member of their editorial boards, but documents in the record 
do not show that the responsibilities of editorial board members extend beyond evaluation of manuscripts 
(which is also the role of a peer reviewer). The nature of a position's duties, rather than the title, is the 
determining factor. 2 The Petitioner's unsalaried service on multiple editorial boards at the same time 
does not indicate that such service occupies a substantial amount of her time. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that these publishers have distinguished reputations. A 
publisher's self-serving promotional materials cannot establish that publisher's reputation. 
Letters from the Petitioner's employer and former mentors, submitted under the heading "Leading & 
Critical Roles," describe the Petitioner's residency and postdoctoral training, and call her an asset to the 
institutions she has served, but these letters do not show that the Petitioner performed in a leading or 
critical role at the institutions that were training her. In her initial submission, the Petitioner states that 
she is chief of Pediatric ,__ _____ __. at the I I Health clinic, but does not specify what 
duties the position entails beyond the typical duties of a physician. 
After the Director issued a request for evidence in 2019, a letter froml I Health indicated that 
the Petitioner chaired several committees not mentioned at the time of filing. Most of the documentation 
submitted to support this assertion dates from after the filing date, the exception being the minutes of a 
meeting dated May 25, 2018, four days before the filing date. (A letter froml Is 
dated April 17, 2018, did not mention that the Petitioner held any committee positions.) 
The meeting minutes identi the Petitioner as the chair of the I !Stewardship andl,__ __ ~ 
Prevention Committee a..___-.--_____ __, s, which met for 7 5 minutes every three months in 2018. 
The Petitioner did not provide sufficient context tp show that this committee chair porition constituted a 
leading or critical role for I • J's. Also, the record indicates that _ !Health 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 10 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
5 
operates in nine regions, with 21 hospitals of its own and "Community Network" affiliations with 17 
others. The Petitioner did not show that her authority extended beyond one region or one hospital within 
thel I Health system. 
An email message from thd I American Academy of Pediatrics invited the Petitioner 
to join "a committee on Immunizations" that, at the time, did not yet exist. Rather, the message, dated 15 
days before the filing of the petition, indicated that the committee "will probably kick off this summer." 
An invitation to join a committee before its formation is not evidence that the Petitioner had already 
performed in a leading or critical role as of the filing date. 
Because the Petitioner has not established performance in leading or critical roles, we need not consider 
the question of whether the organizations have distinguished reputations. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
We do not conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and therefore the record does not warrant a final merits determination. 
Nevertheless, because there have been positive findings regarding three criteria at different points in 
this proceeding, we will briefly consider the final merits determination already conducted by the 
Director, and the Petitioner's response on appeal. 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown 
her eligibility. 
While the record contains several highly complimentary letters about the Petitioner and her various 
research findings, the Director found that the record does not objectively demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
work has earned her sustained national or international acclaim or placed her at the top of her field. The 
Director cited Caron with regard to the limitations of testimonial letters. On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not directly address this finding, focusing instead on her published work and peer review activity. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner judged the work of others in her field through peer review 
of manuscripts submitted for publication or for presentation at conferences, but the Director also found 
that "peer review is a common feature of the publications process." The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner's activity as a judge did not reflect sustained national or international acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she "serves as an Editor or Editorial Board Member for nine 
prestigious journals [ and] as a reviewer for nineteen journals." This assertion is somewhat misleading, 
because many of these journals share a publisher. For example, eight of the journals are published by 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
G 
SCIENCEDOMAIN International, an open-source publisher headquartered in India. Therefore, the 
Petitioner's work for these eight journals does not show that her work has independently come to the 
attention of all these journals. Also, the editorial boards of some SCIENCEDOMAIN journals include 
dozens of "Academic Editors." The record does not establish the criteria for the editorial board 
memberships that the Petitioner holds. Furthermore, not every academic publisher is equally reputable. 
An editorial position with an established, prestigious publisher may carry more weight than one with a 
newly-established open-source publisher that has yet to earn a significant place in the field. In this regard, 
the Petitioner has not shown that her editorial board positions reflect or convey acclaim. 
The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's scholarly publications and conference presentations, but 
found that participation in these activities is an integral element of scientific research, rather than an elite 
privilege reserved for those at the top of the field. On appeal, the Petitioner notes that "she served 
primarily as a physician," and asserts that her publication activity "separate[ s] her from others in the field" 
because "[i]t is not the norm for a physician to publish research." The Petitioner does not establish the 
proportion of practicing physicians who undertake published research. More importantly, a distinction 
that sets the Petitioner apart from others in her field does not necessarily place her above others. 
Publication of one's work provides a potential avenue for earning acclaim, but the publications 
themselves are not evidence of that acclaim. As noted above, the Petitioner has shown that her published 
work has attracted some degree of attention in her field, but she has not established that the extent of that 
attention elevates her to the very top of that field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. We have also reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record offers some indication, including developments that occurred after the filing date, that the 
Petitioner's career is ascendant, as she assumes positions of increasing responsibility and begins to 
accumulate recognition such as the award she received in 2019. In this instance, however, the apparent 
upward trajectory of the Petitioner's career does not translate to a finding that she has reached the very 
top of her field, or was at the very top when she filed the petition in May 2018. A successful and 
productive career does not compel a finding of sustained national or international acclaim. 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6016073 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a molecular biochemist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at 
least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to apply the preponderance of the evidence 
standard to the facts presented . He maintains that he meets three of the initial evidentiary criteria and 
is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed as a post-doctoral researcher in the department of 
biology atl JUniversity.1 He received his bachelor's de ree in chemistry froml I 
College, his master's degree in biochemical technology at Universit , and his doctor 
of philosophy degree in biochemistry atl I The State University of.__ ___ _. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria,judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has peer reviewed manuscripts for scientific journals including 
Cellular & Molecular Biology, International Journal of L[fe-Sciences Scient[fic Research, Bioscience 
Reports, and Cell Biochemistry and Biophysics. He also provided evidence that he serves as an 
editorial board member for three journals, including Journal of Biology and Life Science, and 
Frontiers in Physics, Physiology and Molecular Biosciences. In addition, the Petitioner has submitted 
evidence that he authored scholarly articles published in several scientific journals including Science 
and Molecular Cell. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging 
and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 The record reflects that he received a promotion to the position of Basic Life Research Scientist loon after fi)jnF, the 
netjtjon in March 2r 8. Subsequently, the Petitioner accepted a position as a "Senior Scientist 1,.__ ___ _.with I . 
2 
Evidence of the individual's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claimed in his initial cover letter that he has made five original contributions of major 
significance in the field, as evidenced by his published research, citation record, letters from experts 
in the field, and other evidence. Specifically, he highlighted the following areas of research: (1) 
investigation of the mechanism of transcription involving the (2) 
identification of the mechanism by which anti-bacterial agents disable the I r 
I I (3) development of an I I labeling 
technology; ( 4) investigation of the mechanism of transcriptionl I and transcription I ]and ( 5) development of a novel assay that permits combined I I 
andl of transcription. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, point to the citation of his 
work by others, and comment on their potential and possible future applications, but do not 
demonstrate that his research have made the required impact in the field . 
.__ ___ ~I of I I University describes the Petitioner's work on I I transcription 
mechanisms as "particularly enlightening," noting that he obtained "the first definitive information 
about how the I I to facilitate transcription." I I notes that 
transcription is "universal to all life forms" so "increasing our understanding of how it occurs has "far 
reaching implications." ,__ ______ __, of the I I Laboratory also 
notes that transcription is a "universal process" and states that disruptions in transcription are 
associated with many diseases." He indicates that the insights provided by the Petitioner's research 
"provide valuable information for researchers to develop new therapeutic treatments by targeting 
.__ ____ _.I activities." He does not explain how other researchers have used this information to 
date, nor does the record show that therapeutic treatments have been derived from this particular 
research. .__ _______ _. of University of I I echoes I Is statements regarding 
the "far-reaching implications" of this research and states that he was inspired to publish a review 
"elaborating on its importance." However, he does not further explain the importance of the discovery, 
what its "far-reaching" implications are, or its specific impact on the field, nor does the record contain 
a copy of the review that he authored. 
~-----~' formerly a principal scientist at I I discusses the Petitioner's analysis of 
the biological mechanisms relevant to the I O I' of He notes that the 
Petitioner investigated the behavior of three natural products ( abbreviated I ~ that 
were known to selectively bind to thisl ~ and to exhibit antibacterial activity. D 
3 
.__ _ ___.I explains that the Petitioner investigated the behavior of thesel I inhibitors and 
found that they each caused thd I to lock in a closed position, thus preventing transcription 
from taking place. He explains that the Petitioner's research "provided a valuable foundation for 
further research and development of antimicrobial agents." He mentions two other research groups 
who had used the Petitioner's findings to develop new! I drugs with 
antibacterial activity, describing them as "noteworthy pharmaceutical developments." I I 
notes that the Petitioner's research in this area aids further investigation into "alternatives to current 
antibacterial drugs that target.__ __ ~ ____ .....," noting that it has "directly resulted in multiple 
endeavors to bring new antibacterials to the ~lace, offering new treatment options for many 
diseases including tuberculosis." Similarly, L__J states that the Petitioner's findings are "highly 
relevant to the development of new antibiotics" that may help fight bacterial strains that have grown 
resistant to existing options. He confirms that there have been "a host of projects aimed at developing 
new I O !," noting that the Petitioner's work has been applied in "direct and 
consequential ways." 
While the record indicates that other researchers in academia and in the pharmaceutical industry have 
built upon the Petitioner's research, the evidence does not establish that the field views the Petitioner's 
work as a contribution of major significance. Nor does it demonstrate that it has resulted in new 
antibiotic drugs that are available in the marketplace; rather, it appears that that such an im 
prospective in nature. For exampleJ I of University o_L'-------,------.---~.&..<.1.1,;....,_, 
that '1 .... ___ __.l published papers expressing interest in developing drugs to target the~---~ 
region." 
Several of the submitted expert opinion letters comment on the Petitioner's design of an._! ____ __, 
.__ _______ _. labeling technology . .__ _____ __.of I I University states that the 
Petitioner "has received considerable attention for developing a technology to attach I I 
probes for single-molecule studies using a.__ ______ __.," and notes that "many researchers are 
employing this tool to study various proteins with a level and degree of accuracy never achieved 
before." I I also comments on the Petitioner's technological advance, noting that 
"[ s ]uccessful biochemical research ... demands that the scientist develop customized instruments and 
techniques to do things that have never been done before." He explains that the "scope of applicability 
for this method is vast and includes virtually any study involving protein structure or function." The 
submitted letters do not explain how the novel technique has been widely implemented or how it has 
been regarding by the field as a contribution of major significance. Rather,I Is statement 
suggests that it is common for biochemical researchers to develop new techniques in order to carry 
out their research. 
The above-referenced letter from also addresses the Petitioner's investigation of transcription 
I I and transcription.__ ________ _. He explains that c=J' s "location and 
role in unwinding DNA was poorly understood prior to [the Petitioner's] investigation," and notes that 
the Petitioner "produced the first evidence of an I I relationship between the two factors ... 
during the transcription process."I ~ indicates that the functionality o~ I is "of major interest 
to researchers studying topics including cancer and birth defects." I l a research 
associate atl I University, describes the Petitioner's research in this area as "influential" 
describes the work of a team of researchers that "profited from [the Petitioner's] insights into the 
nature oQactivity." These letters do not sufficiently detail in what ways the Petitioner has 
4 
advanced the state of research in his field or elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already 
impacted the wider field beyond the teams of researchers who have directly cited his article on this 
topic. 
Finally,! l's letter discusses the Petitioner's development of al I assay that permits 
combined! I and .__ _____ ~__, of the transcription process. He states that the 
techniques the Petitioner developed to carry out this project "place him at the vanguard of biochemical 
and biophysical researchers" and notes that very few laboratories worldwide have been able to 
successfully employ such an approach. With respect to the impact of the research,! I notes 
that [a]berrations in gene expression are at the core of many of the most vexing problems in medicine" 
and states that the Petitioner "is building the framework to understand and eventually treat these 
conditions in radically new ways." However, he does not discuss in detail how the Petitioner's work 
has already remarkably impacted their shared field or provide examples of specific applications 
attributed to the Petitioner's work in this area. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's 
research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent 
with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 2 Letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters 
do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented in the field or 
not establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole 
commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar. But this evidence 
not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of molecular biochemistry rises to the level 
of an original contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major 
significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of "major significance." Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has 
shown that his findings, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered 
important at a level consistent with original contributions of major significance in the field. We 
acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "4 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence from Clarivate Analytics showing that three of the articles he 
published were ranked among the top 10% in citations when grouped by academic field (in this case, 
molecular biology and genetics) and year of publication. He also submitted a paper published in the 
journal Scientometrics which suggests that this metric is one of three that should be used to evaluate 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
3 Id. at 9. 
4 Id. at 8. 
5 
individual researchers in the natural and life sciences for purposes of funding and promotion or hiring 
decisions. The authors state that "publications which are among the 10% most cited publications in 
their subject area are as a rule called highly cited or excellent" and that "the top 10% based excellence 
indicator" should be given "the highest weight when comparing the scientific performance of single 
researchers." However, this evidence does not establish that metrics that may be suitable for 
comparing applicants for academic research positions and grants are indicators that a researcher has 
made contributions of major significance to his or her field. 5 
Comparative rankings to baseline or average citation rates do not automatically establish that a given 
petitioner has made a contribution of major significance in the field. 6 A more appropriate analysis, 
for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, 
highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in 
other corroborating evidence. Highly cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance" as a citation ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. We also acknowledge that the Petitioner provided evidence that two of his articles were 
published in journals with high rankings based on their impact factor. However, a publication's high 
ranking or impact is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not demonstrate the 
influence of any particular author within the field, how an author's research impacted the field, or 
establish a contribution of major significance in the field. That context must be provided by other 
evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, any of the three articles he characterizes as highly 
cited resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of research articles that cited to his 
work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research 
to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. For instance, the Petitioner provided a 
partial copy of an article entitled, 
'-------------~-~----~-----___.(Molecular Cell), in which the 
Petitioner highlighted two sentences that cite to his 2012 Science article. 7 However, the article does 
not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other cited papers, of which there 
are more than 50. The submitted research articles reference the Petitioner's work as evidence ofrecent 
research, and, while the articles indicate that the authors' own research built upon the Petitioner's 
5 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work do not 
demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely cited and relied upon that it is considered to have made a major 
impact in his field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination. 
6 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, chemistry papers published in 2017 receiving only seven 
citations and in 2018 receiving only two citations are in the top 10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with 
such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among 
the top 10% of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
work, as well as the work of the other cited scientists, the Petitioner not demonstrate that the overall 
field views his published findings as original contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several review articles, and 
submits a screenshot of a page from the website of the University of Texas Libraries titled "What's a 
'Review Article?'" The Petitioner states that inclusion in review articles shows that his work "has 
been widely upheld as a benchmark for farther study in molecular biology." The evidence indicates 
that review articles are "an attempt to ... sum up the current state of the research on a particular topic" 
and may identify "the main people workin in a field" and "recent ma·or advances and discoveries." 
One of the submitted review articles, titled I i(Microbiology and Moleculc._u_· B-io_l_o_gy_R_e_v_ie_w_s_)_, -c-it_e_s-to-th_e_P_e-ti-ti_o_n-er_'_s_2_0_1_2_S_c_·i-en_c_·e_. 
article and 2011 Current Opinions in Microbiology article among at least 155 other articles. While the 
evidence indicates that the Petitioner has made original contributions to what appears to be an active 
field of research, we cannot determine that every publication cited in a review article is indicative of 
majorly significant. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that a mention of his 2012 Science article published by the I I provides evidence of the rgniycance of the his 
research findings. The article, which was published on the "News" portal on s website, credits 
the Petitioner and his team with explaining the mechanism~ction for the natural antibacterial 
substances discovered be=] scientists. The article discussesl_Js ongoing research in this area and 
speculates on the prospective potential impact of that research. For example, the article quotes D 
scientists who state that "[t]heir application in the fight against those bacteria that have evolved 
resistance to traditional antibiotics opens up a world of possibilities in terms of new drug design," 
"[t]he substances cannot in their current form be used as drugs quite yet," and "we have to first 
continue to fine-tune their integration into potential new drugs." The article reports on how the 
Petitioner's findings may impact the field at some point in the future but does not demonstrate that the 
current impact of his work rises to a level of "major significance" as rTuiref- Therefore, while the 
article reports on the Petitioner's published article and its relationship to s original identification 
of the substances andD s ongoing research, he did not demonstrate how his work already qualifies 
as a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that his research has been fonded by the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) on multiple occasions and provides statistics relating to the competitiveness of securing grants. 
Receiving fonding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of itself 
Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving the grant is reflective of his past work's major 
significance, or that his research conducted with the NIH grant resulted in a contribution of major 
significance in the field. The record contains two recommendation letters confirming that the 
Petitioner's "contributions directly led to the obtainment of [NIH] fonding." The letters, however, do 
not sufficiently illustrate how the fonding reflects the importance of the Petitioner's contributions, nor 
do they indicate the research results of the NIH fonding and whether they are majorly significant in 
the field. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow biochemists and other experts, establishes 
that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon 
7 
by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made a contribution of 
major significance in the field of biochemistry. Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6864538 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish , as required, that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
I&NDec . 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner did not meet at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and, accordingly, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist in the field of machine learning and artificial intelligence. He 
received his bachelor of rgineering and master of engineering degrees in computer science and 
technology froml _ University in 2006 and 2008, respectively. The Petitioner completed his 
doctoral studies in electrical and computer engineering at University of I O I ~6. As of the date of filing, he had previous work experience as a research scientist for ~ as a research intern fo~~--------~~ and as a graduate research assistant at 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below:2 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two evidentiary criteria, related to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. The record reflects that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of 
others in his field by peer reviewing manuscripts for conferences and professional journals in his field, 
consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). He has also written scholarly articles in the field, including 
several journal articles and more than 20 papers published in conference proceedings, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner accepted a position as a senior research scientist withl I in August 
2018, subsequent to the filing of the petition. 
2 The Director determined that the Petitioner initially claimed to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), relating to 
membership in associations in the field which require outstanding achievement of their members, but did not submit 
sufficient evidence to satisty the criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this determination on appeal and therefore we 
deem this issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that 
he had made original contributions of major significance in his field. After reviewing all the evidence 
in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner did not meet this third criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he has made three significant contributions to the field of machine 
learning, deep learning, and artificial intelligence. 4 Specifically, he asserts that he meets this criterion 
because he has authored scholarly articles that other scientists have relied on or cited to, he has 
presented his findings in international conferences, and he has submitted letters from other scientists 
in his field who discuss and praise his research contributions. 
As a preliminary matter, we note that two of the three original contributions identified by the Petitioner 
on appeal are based on research that he published or presented subsequent to the filing of this petition 
in March 2018. Specifically, he ,laims e)igihi)itv under this criterion based on bis· CD deve)ooment 
of methods for compression of l I 
'---------,,-------.===============l.1...; ....:a::.:;;n~d~{2=.)L.....:d::..::e:....:.v-=.el;:;.:;-opment of a novel 
regularization method for I~-----~ .---------. I. 
Letters froml 1,1 l and note that the Petitioner's article 
discussing his development of I I was published by the I -I 2018, and they do not claim to have been f~am-i-li_a_r_w_i_th_t_b-is-re_s_e_a_rc_b_o_r_io_r_t_o_tb-a~t 
time.) The Petitioner's curriculum vitae listed his co-authored paper ~ _ ] I las a publication that was "Under Preparation or Under Review" and 
"submitted to I I 2018." The Petitioner's Google Scholar citation index provided at the time of 
filing, which included publications from 2018 and therefore appeared to be recently printed, did not 
include any publications with titles mentioning.___~---~------' Finally, we note that none 
of the five expert opinion letters provided with the Petitioner's initial submission mentioned his 
research in this area. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided letters frottj l l land I who 
discuss his research and contributions in additional areas within his field. The Petitioner does not reference these research 
contributions or these letters on appeal or indicate that he meets the original contributions criterion based on this evidence. 
Therefore, althouoh we have reviewed and considered these let~will not discuss them here. 
5 The 201 sC::J' conference was held inD2018. See https:l___JConferences/2018 (last visited on Apr. 14. 2020). 
3 
The evidence also reflects that the Petitioner developed thep regularization method after j~ining 
1 I I in August 2018. Director of O ,I states that 
regularization "is an important update of 's artifi¢al..inttjligence framework since the 
World Congress inl 12018," and,,__ __ ~ ofL___J University indicates that he and his 
colleagues have been discussing thee=] regularization method "since this method was released in 
1 12019." 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A 
petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. 
Matter oflzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). Therefore, the Petitioner cannot establish that 
he meets this criterion based on research that was published subsequent to the filing of the petition. 
The last of the three original contributions highlighted by the Petitioner on appeal is his development of 
..._ ______________ __. method, research that he ori inall ubli12,LL>,""--'.U....""'-'--'r'· He 
specifically references two previously submitted letters fro and both 
professors with the National University ot1 I ~-~emphasizes the import.,...... ................... 7-_ __J I J in artificial intelligence, and states that he considers the Petitioner's ,.__ _ ___, to be 
"extraordinarily important" and a "major breakthrough" in thel I field. He notes that it 
has "intrigued a lot of researchers and engineers in the field" and that it is "open sourced on GitHub" 
where it "greatly facilitates the research progress of other methods." I further 
states that he is aware of others who have employed the method for their projects, and that he 
believes it "will generate greater impact in the future.".__ __ _. who co-authored the Petitioner's paper, 
describes thd I method as "a significant contribution to the machine learning literature," noting 
that it "significantly improves the potential o~ I methods," and has "gained considerable 
impact on the machine learning community." He states that his students have used thel biethod 
since 2016 and have been developing newl I methods inspired by the method. 
In addition to these letters, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I a scientist at 
the Institute of '-----,--..------,-....,..,..,...-.-=---~ who describes the Petitioner's I I method as 
"revolutionary'," noting that it "is the first work in thel I literature that demonstrates 
the merit [of] I I in terms ofl I discovery." He states that I I has been highly 
regarded as an important work in the I I literature" and indicates his belief that it "will 
attract more attention and create more impact in the machine-learning community in the near future." b I ofD who also co-authored the Petitioner's aper," notes in his letter thatD 
"has been widely regarded as an important L-...r-------'--...,,ethod by the lobal research 
munities" stating that methods capable oflearning .__ ____ ___, structur,es_1_· ..___---.-___ _. 
'have "tremendous value in both theory and applications in various areas.".__ ___ ~ notes that 
method "im roves the usability ofl I' He states that "a lot of research 
works in " including his own publications, "are either based on the idea of [the '--~--~---' Petitioner's] or directly adopted the methods." 
Although these letters explain the Petitioner's research and note its novelty and value, they do not 
explain with specificity why the I I has been considered of such importance, and, more 
importantly, how its current impact on the field rises to the level major significance required by this 
criterion. While the letters indicate that thel I method has been cited and used by others in the 
4 
field, they also emphasize its potential future impact, making it unclear to what extent it has already 
influenced or impacted the field. The letters generally indicate that the research is considered 
important, added value to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened avenues for farther 
researching intol I methods. The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that 
the level of attention the Petitioner has received reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of 
his work, or that the field of machine learning or its subfields have regarded his research as 
authoritative or otherwise deem it to be of major significance. Here, the Petitioner's letters do not 
contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or high impact his research or 
work has already had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 6 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
In addition to the expert opinion letters, the Petitioner also provides his publication and citation record 
from Google Scholar, which includes his journal articles and conference presentations. 8 We note that 
several of the submitted letters highlight that the Petitioner presented his paper describing the above-
reference~ I method, titled ,j O I' at the I I I ,I in 2016, and emphasize that I lis a "premier international conference" 
in this subfield. The record also indicates that the Petitioner's paper was selected as one of eleven 
"BTt Papr' finalists at this conference, but it does not demonstrate how the Petitioner's invitation to 
the or the finalist recognition he received for his paper are indicators that the research has been 
recognized as an original contribution of major significance in his field. 
As noted, publications and presentations typically present "original" work but are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." Generally, citations 
serve as an indication that the field has taken an interest in a Petitioner's work. We acknowledge, 
however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor."9 
According to Google Scholar, the Petitioner's co-authored conference paper on thel lmethod 
had been cited 12 times at the time of filing, while his most cited article had 40 citations. Although 
he provided information regarding the number of times each of his articles has been cited, he did not 
provide additional supporting evidence to establish the significance of these numbers or to demonstrate 
that any of his publications are highly cited or widely discussed when compared to articles published by 
others. For example, an appropriate analysis, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to those of 
other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as 
factoring in other corroborating evidence. Absent such evidence, the Petitioner's citations reflect that 
his research has received some attention from the field, but he did not demonstrate that the citation 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. 
8 The Petitioner submits an updated Google Scholar citation history on appeal indicating that the cumulative number of 
citations mentioned in the Director's decision was incorrect. The record reflects that the Director accurately stated the 
number of cumulative citations documented in the Petitioner's Google Scholar citation history submitted at the time of 
filing. 
9 Id. at 8-9. 
5 
numbers for his individual articles represent majorly significant contributions to the overall field. For 
example, we cannot determine whether a record of 12 citations supports the testimonial evidence 
indicating that the Petitioner's novel method was received by the field as "revolutionary" or as a "major 
breakthrough." 
Regardless, even highly cited publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
absent evidence that they were of "major significance" as a citation number or ranking does not 
provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. Here, while the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's past research findings, as of 
the date of filing, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the Petitioner's journal publications and conference 
papers, his citation history, and the reference letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes 
that the Petitioner has been very productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied 
upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate, however, that the Petitioner has made 
an original contribution of major significance in his field. Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7185767 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a co-founder and co-artistic director ot1._ ______ ___.I and she has also taught 
at various dance schools. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iii) and (iv). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria, 
numbered (iv) and (vii). We explain our findings below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several articles from various sources. The Director found, without 
comment, that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. We disagree. 
Many of the submitted articles are reviews or previews of local performances, and a substantial number 
of the submitted articles do not mention the Petitioner's name at all; instead, they mention schools or 
events that involved the Petitioner. Many more identify her in relation to various dance companies, but 
only four articles devote enough attention to the Petitioner to qualify as being about her as the regulation 
2 
requires. Very few of the submitted articles devote significant attention to the Petitioner, and the 
Petitioner did not establish that the articles about her appeared in major media. 
One of the articles about the Petitioner appeared in a newspaper focused onl I and the surrounding 
area (the article's headline emphasizes that the Petitioner is froml I ranked 8431 among "News 
and Media" websites and 2819 overall in Spain. The Petitioner did not establish that these figures are 
consistent with major media. Also, the article from the I I newspaper does not identify an author as 
the regulation requires. This omission is of particular concern because the article refers to the Petitioner's 
''unstoppable success" inl l an assessment not evident in the other published materials. 
The other online articles about the Petitioner are from lesser sources, such as a blog post by the Petitioner's 
yoga teacher, or are promotional rather than journalistic in nature ( such as an interview with the Petitioner 
on the website of an organization that sponsored her work). A print article about the Petitioner appeared 
in a Basque-language magazine that distributes 6000 free copies in Northern Spain. The Petitioner did 
not submit comparative evidence to establish that this magazine constitutes major media. 
Screen captures show the Petitioner on a local NBC affiliate, discussing the then-upcoming~!---~ 
Tap Festival. The submitted image includes the web address for the video clip, enabling us to view the 
video for context. The video begins with an interview with the artistic director of the[ I 
~-----~, after which the Petitioner and two other dancers perform a brief demonstration of tap 
dance. The interviewer then speaks to the three dancers. The complete exchange with the Petitioner is 
as follows: 
REPORTER: And this young lady, here, just guickl], how did you start? 
PETITIONER: I think it was when I sawl , actually, and then ... 
REPORTER: Great Broadway show, lot of fun, lot of tap. 
PETITIONER: Yes, and ... 
REPORTER: Thank you all for being with us. 
This interaction lasts for about 10 seconds of the 5 :26 video clip. By comparison, the interview with the 
Foundation's artistic director lasts for nearly two and a half minutes. The Petitioner's participation in a 
group demonstration and her two brief: interrupted comments do not establish that the news story is about 
the Petitioner, relating to her work in the field. Rather, she appeared as one of several examples of tap 
dancers who would participate in the festival. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner served as a judge at a number of what appear to be regional dance competitions. This 
activity is sufficient to satisfy the wording of the regulation. Had the case proceeded to a final merits 
determination, we would have considered evidence ( or the lack thereof) regarding the scope and 
reputation of these competitions and the criteria for selection as a judge. 
3 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner states that she satisfies this criterion because "[ s ]he has performed in numerous special 
events and showcases that have specially exhibited her talents." The Director stated that "[n]ot every 
performance is an artistic exhibition designed to showcase the performer's art," and noted the existence 
of a separate criterion relating to the performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
As the Petitioner observes on appeal, criterion (x) pertains to commercial success in the performing arts, 
not mere participation in the performing arts. As such, the consideration of performance as display under 
certain circumstances would not make criteria (vii) and (x) indistinguishable from one another. The 
evidence submitted is sufficient to establish the display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases.1 For example, thel I Dance Invitational selected a work that the Petitioner co-
choreographed as an example of 'I ts best in regional dance." This event was not simply a self-
organized performance by the Petitioner's dance company, but rather an externally curated event with 
competitive entrance requirements. The organizer's description of the event as "regional" would be a 
factor to consider in the final merits determination. 
The Petitioner satisfies the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims to have "held a number of highly important positions within highly recognized 
dance organizations." The Director found that the record lacks "detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how [the Petitioner's] role was leading or critical for an entire organization or 
establishment." 
Photocopies of programs identify several productions in which the Petitioner danced, or which she 
choreographed. Without explanation and context, these materials show that the Petitioner is active in the 
arts but do not establish the leading or critical nature of her role or the distinguished reputations of the 
organizations that presented the productions. 
The Petitioner identifies dance schools where she has taught. Serving on the faculty of an educational 
institution is not inherently a critical role; an instructor's direct impact is concentrated on specific classes, 
and the Petitioner has not shown that she has greater responsibilities at the organizational level. The 
Petitioner's faculty positions appear to be part-time, coinciding with her ongoing work with I ~ 
I I 
1 In contrast, correspondence from an organizer of the Jazz Dance Festivail I indicates that the Petitioner patticipated 
in that event as a teacher, with "a little routine" performed "at the student showcase on the last day." This evidence suggests 
that the Petitioner's role was more educational than artistic, with the closing routine serving more as a demonstration than as 
an artistic work. 
4 
The Petitioner performs in a leading role for as one of its artistic directors, but the 
record does not establish that~-----~has a distinguished reputation among dance companies. 
Documentation of performances by the company do not establish such a reputation. 
Furthermore, much of the evidence the Petitioner submitted as evidence of various organizations' 
distinguished reputations is in the form of promotional material issued by those organizations. 
Promotional materials, being inherently self-serving, are not objective evidence of an organization's 
reputation. 
Letters from thel I indicate that the Petitioner has served as a "team 
leader" and "Rehearsal Director for ... I f' an annual event held by the Foundation. It is evident 
from the record that there are several team leaders and rehearsal directors, who serve as assistants to the 
choreographer. The letters call the Petitioner "an important asset to [the] organization," but the record 
does not show that her activities amount to a leading or critical role for the Foundation. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. The Petitioner has 
established a viable career in dance in I I but that level of success is not tantamount to 
the acclaim that the statute demands. She has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). We find the record insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6830071 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that Petitioner established 
that he met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at 
least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted evidence that satisfies four of the evidentiary 
criteria and is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a guitarist and composer, has been a member of several Colombian bands, including 
I 11 ~ andl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets four of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 1 The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria, relating to leading or 
critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation, and commercial success in the 
performing arts. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (x). However, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence to satisfy the two remaining claimed criteria, relating to published 
material about him and his work in major media, and display of his work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. See 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vii). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner did not establish that 
he meets at least three evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the articles the Petitioner submitted did not satisfy this criterion because 
they only briefly mentioned him or his musical groups and were not about him and his work in the 
1 The Petitioner has not claimed that he meets any of the evidentiary criteria not discussed in this decision. 
2 
field. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on articles published by El 
Espectador, El Tiempo, and Remezcla. 
With regard to the article published by El Espectador, the Petitioner submitted the article in English 
and it was not accompanied by the Spanish-language original, nor does the translation contain a 
statement from a translator attesting to its accuracy and completeness. Any document in a foreign 
language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The 
translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Here, the Petitioner 
submitted a single blanket "Certificate of Accuracy" from a translator who does not identify the 
documents she translated. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language 
translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is 
accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
In any event, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that El Espectador qualifies 
as a major trade publication, professional publication or other major media. 2 The Petitioner relies on 
a screenshot from the website SimilarWeb which indicates that El Espectador has a global rank of 
3,298, a country rank of 27, and a category rank of 551. The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate 
the significance of the Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such information reflects 
the publication's status as major media. 
With respect to the article from El Tiempo, which was published in its print edition, the Petitioner 
submitted only a partial English translation of an article titled ' I I. The translated portion incl~u-de_s_o_n_l_y_t-hr_e_e_p_a_ra_g_r_a-ph_s_o_f_a_le_n_g-th~y 
article, in which the members of the group I I are introduced. In total, 
there are two sentences about the Petitioner and we agree with the Director's determination that the 
article is not about him. In addition to the insufficient translation, we note that the article does not 
identify the author of the material. While the record reflects that El Tiempo likely qualifies as major 
media in Colombia, the evidence submitted does not satisfy all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Finally, we agree with the Petitioner that the article published by online publication Remezcla, titled 
i ,I' contains sufficient references to and quotes from the 
Petitioner to qualify as published material about him and his work. However, the Petitioner did not 
establish that Remezcla, which is described as a I I "Latino independent cultural 
publication," qualifies as major media. The Petitioner submitted an article about the publication which 
mentions the size of its online audience but he did not provide comparative circulation statistics or 
rankings. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
3 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion based on his live performances 
as a musician, emphasizing that this criterion is "limited to the visual arts." We disagree with the 
Director's interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only 
to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own 
work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions 
or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 3 
As certain exhibitions or showcases featuring performing artists meet the plain language of this 
regulation, the Director should not have summarily disregarded the Petitioner's evidence. Here, for 
example, the Petitioner provided evidence that his bands have performed at music festivals, and at 
various Colombian arts and cultural events. Accordingly, we conclude that the submitted evidence 
satisfies the plain language of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion. Upon review, the Petitioner has 
submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he served in a critical role as lead guitarist and co-
writer fo ._ _________ _. Further, he has established that the group, which was nominated 
for at least one Latin Grammy A ward, received significant media coverage, toured nationally and 
internationally, and enjoyed a distinguished reputation in Colombia. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
We note that the Director's decision states without explanation that the Petitioner provided sufficient 
documentation to satisfy this criterion. As explained below, upon de nova review of the record, we 
find the Petitioner has not adequately documented the sales of his recorded music. Therefore, we will 
withdraw the Director's determination that this criterion was met. 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales as a measure of an individual's commercial success in the 
performing arts. The evidence must show that the volume of sales reflects the individual's success 
relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 4 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner provided evidence relating to one of his bands.I~-----~ I ~' including: (1) screenshots from Y ouTube providing viewing data for several of the group's 
music videos; (2) a screenshot of an article from the website los40.com.co which mentions that the 
group received a I I for selling 10,000 copies of I I in Colombia; (3) a 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 9-10. (stating that officers should use the common 
dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
4 Id. at 11-12. 
4 
screenshot of an article from El Espectador which mentions that the band' s~debut album achieved 
"double platinum" status; and (4) a partial Wikipedia article listing music recording certification 
thresholds in different countries along with the name of each country's certifying authority. 
The information provided regarding the band's YouTube views does not satisfy the plain language of 
this regulation as it does not relate to.__ ___ ~---~___.'s sales of recorded music or video 
sales. Further, the band's achievement of gold and platinum record status is not sufficiently 
documented in the record. The Petitioner has relied solely on English translations of Spanish-language 
media articles to corroborate his band's achievement of these sales milestones. As noted, any 
document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a foll English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide copies of the original articles in Spanish, nor did he provide a 
properly certified English translation of foreign-language documents. Rather the Petitioner submitted 
a single, blanket certification that did not accompany or refer to any specific document. This 
"Certificate of Accuracy" includes the translator's name and states that she is "fluent in English and 
Spanish and the above translation is accurate to the best of my ability and knowledge." Because the 
Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the articles that mention 
the band's sales certifications, we cannot determine whether the translated material is accurate and 
thus supports the Petitioner's claim. 
Even if the articles that mention]~---------~~ s gold and platinum record certifications 
were properly translated, the record does not contain primary evidence of the band's receipt of these 
certifications, or evidence of its total sales relative to that of other musical groups. The Petitioner did 
not, for example, provide evidence from the industry's certifying body, or from~----~ (the 
band's record label), confirming the group's gold and platinum records and the sales achieved to obtain 
them. 
For these reasons, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
5 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6959088 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chef, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish , as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and new evidence , claiming that he meets at least three 
evidentiary criteria and is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). The Administrative 
Appeals Office (AAO) reviews the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 
I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as the executive chef at I I a restaurant in._l __ _. 
Texas. According to his resume, he has worked in various chef positions at restaurants in the United 
States and Italy since 2000. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he meets six of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and now claims on appeal that he meets four criteria. 1 The Director 
found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, relating to performance in a leading or 
critical role with an organizations or establishments that has a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. 
~(h)(3)(viii). The Petitioner provided evidence of his critical role as executive chef ofl I 
L___Jalong with media coverage and other evidence demonstrating that this establishment enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published 
material about him and relating to his work, display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, 
and high salary or other significantly high remuneration. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the Petitioner did not establish that he meets at least three criteria. 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued his initial claim that he meets the criteria related to memberships in associations in the 
field that require outstanding achievements of their members (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)) or commercial success in the 
performing arts (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x)). Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these 
criteria in this decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on previously submitted evidence 
of articles that appeared in Italian publications including fl Venerdi Di' Repubblica and Cucina 
Italiana. 
The article from II Venerdi Di' Repubblica is about the Beneficia and his work. We note that the 
article that appeared in the magazine Cucina Italiana, while titled .__ _____ .,..... _____ ---r-....,..... 
indicates that the chef interviewed for the 2008 article had been working for.__ ___ _. smce 
December 2007. The Beneficiary's resume does not state that he worked for that restaurant. Rather, 
it indicates that he worked in Italy atl lfrom 2006 to 2008 and for from 2008 to 
2010. There is no evidence in the record of the Petitioner's employment as a chef at'---~~ m 
2008. Therefore, we cannot determine that this article is about the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner did not provide any supporting evidence, at the time of filing or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), to establish that either publication qualifies as a professional 
or major trade publication or other major media. 2 
The purpose of the RFE is to elicit further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit 
sought has been established. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8). In this case, the Director advised the Petitioner 
in the RFE that additional documentary evidence would be needed to establish that any of the 
submitted articles satisfy the requirement that the material be published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Specifically, the Director advised that such evidence could include 
the circulation (on-line and/or in print) for the publications in which the material appeared and the 
intended audience of the publication. 
The Petitioner did not acknowledge this request or submit the requested evidence in response to the 
RFE, but now submits evidence pertaining to the circulation of the two above-referenced publications 
on appeal. We note that the Petitioner does not claim that the previously submitted evidence was 
sufficient to meet this criterion or claim that the Director's determination was otherwise erroneous 
based on the evidence before him at the time of the decision. 
When, as here, the record shows that a petitioner was put on notice of an evidentiary deficiency and 
was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we will not accept evidence regarding that 
deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764; Obaigbena, 
19 I&N Dec. 533. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (providing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that the work displayed is his own work 
product and that the venues at which his work was displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 3 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his participation in an "Ultimate Chef 
Showdown," a judy;ed cooking competition that was held at the .__ ___________ ____. 
I O ~ 12015.4 Thd lis described in the submitted materials as "the 
world's premier event for the I !industry." According to the description of the 2015 event, 
the chef tournament was included as part of the Expo's focus on food and beverage operations as "one 
the most profitable categories withinl'- I" 
While the evidence confirms the Petitioner's participation in the "Ultimate Chef Showdown," the 
evidence does not show that the event, al I conference, was intended as an "artistic 
exhibition or showcase" for display of the work of the chefs involved. Rather, the record reflects that 
chefs from certain! I properties were invited to participate as part of the conference's 
programming in the food and beverage sector. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
of the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted evidence of his prior earnings, including a 
copy of his latest IRS Forms W-2, Wage and Tax Statements. However, the Director determined that 
the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion because he did not provide any "earning data from other 
sources showing that [his] salary is high in relation to others in the field." 
The record reflects that the Director advised the Petitioner of this deficiency in the RFE, instructed the 
Petitioner to provide "independent evidence" to establish that his salary is high in relation to others, and 
provided a list of the types of evidence that may satisfy this evidentiary requirement. The Petitioner did 
not acknowledge this request or submit any of the requested evidence in response, but now submits 
comparative salary data from Department of Labor resources on appeal. The Petitioner does not claim 
that the Director reached an erroneous conclusion based on the evidence previously submitted. 
As noted above, where, as here the record shows that a petitioner was put on notice of an evidentiary 
deficiency and was given an opportunity to address that deficiency, we will not accept evidence 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 9-10 (stating that officers should use the common 
dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion, and indicating that a "showcase" is "a 
setting, occasion, or medium for exhibiting something or someone, especially in an attractive or favorable aspect" 
(emphasis added)). 
4 The Petitioner also submits new evidence related to his participation as a local celebrity chef in the 201 ~ I 
a fundraising event sponsored by thel Is division. The Petitioner filed this petition in 
2018. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from 
the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Accordingly, we will not evaluate this 
new evidence in determining whether the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii) at the time of filing. 
4 
regarding that deficiency when offered for the first time on appeal. See, e.g., Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner previously received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approvals do not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly denied after 
USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 
2d25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d22 (D.D.C. 1999); FedinBrothers 
Co. Ltd., 724 F. Supp. at 1103. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office 
adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of 
appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on 
behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another 
immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at 
*2 (E.D. La. 2000) 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7302905 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a metalworking and design firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary, an "artist 
blacksmith," as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as 
required, it did not establish that he has sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate 
that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director misinterpreted or disregarded persuasive evidence 
that is sufficient to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the 
beneficiary meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a firm that drafts, fabricates, renders and installs ornamental metalwork for residential 
and commercial architectural projects, currently employs the Beneficiary as an "artist blacksmith." 
The Beneficiary completed his blacksmith qualification at a H~ian vocational school in 1994 and 
received a certificate in "Blacksmith Advanced Studies" fromL__JUniversity of Applied Sciences -
Institute of Design and Fine Arts i~ lin 2001. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to seven of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary met three of the criteria, 
relating to published material in major trade publications or other major media, display of his work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases, and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations that 
have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vii) and (viii). However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the Beneficiary met the criteria for lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards, memberships in associations in his field, original contributions 
2 
of major significance, and high salary or other significantly high remuneration at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v) and (ix). Ultimately, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not 
established the Beneficiary's eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "inappropriately discounted individuals in the field 
who are aware of the facts and reputation of the beneficiary." The Petitioner emphasizes that USCIS 
has already found that the Beneficiary has satisfied three of the ten criteria and asserts that the totality 
of the record supports a conclusion that he has risen to the top of his field. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we disagree with the Director's determination that 
the evidence submitted establishes that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not establish that the 
Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted the following evidence relating to this criterion: 
• 20171 !Award for Craftmanship and Artisanship, awarded to the Petitioner for 
'l.__~--~~-~---------~-----c=---'I" 
• ~l_s_t _P_l_a_c_e_ce_rt_1_· f_ic_a_te_f_o_r~--~at_i_on __ in_t_h_e_ex_h_1_·b_it_i_on __ o_f _w_o_rk_s_a_t_t_h_e_2~nd=I ======= 
'----------============;------'-'- (2001) 
• at the 4th National 3rd Place Diploma in the I !(Hungary, 2005) 
With respect to the I IA ward awarded to the petitioning company, we note that according 
to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that 
the individual beneficiary is the actual recipient of the prizes or the awards. 1 While the Petitioner 
submitted letters explaining that the Beneficiary played a key role in the award-winning project, it 
remains that he is not the recipient of the award. An October 2018 letter from thel I 
L--------,----,--,.....,........,....--r-'-sc..;;t=at'""'e=s....;.;th=a=t-"7the Petitioner's] work and [ the Beneficiary] as a team member 
was recognized with the .__ ____ __.Award." However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
that the Beneficiary received any formal individual recognition from thel I contemporaneous with 
the granting of his employer's award. 
With respect to the two remaining awards, the Petitioner did not provide any information or evidence 
regarding these awards beyond the award certificates themselves. While the certificates name the 
Beneficiary as the recipient, the record does not establish the national or international significance of 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that for this criterion, the focus should be on an 
individual's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes). 
3 
the awards. Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 The fact that the events were 
designated as "national" or "international" is not sufficient to establish that the awards the Beneficiary 
received are nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field. 
For these reasons, we agree with the Director's determination that the Beneficiary does not meet this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on his membership in the 
Hungarian Blacksmith Guild. The Petitioner submitted a June 2015 letter froml I Guild 
Master, who states that the guild only admits new members "who know blacksmith craft in an excellent 
manner and create pieces of work of high artistic standard." Regarding the Beneficiary's membership, I I states: "In 1996, he applied for membership before the committee by presenting pieces of 
work that prove his perfect possession of professional knowledge and his artistic talent and he got 
admitted based on the unanimous decision of the guild assembly." 
Based on this limited information regarding the membership selection criteria and process, the 
Petitioner did not meet its burden to establish that the Beneficiary, who was 19 or 20 years old at the 
time of admission to the Hungarian Blacksmith Guild, was required to demonstrate "outstanding 
achievements" in his field, as judged by recognized national or international experts, as a condition 
for membership. 
We note thatj I also states that the Beneficiary "fulfilled the function of the notary" between 
2012 and 2014, and the Petitioner stated in its own letter that he "was appointed distinguished 
member" of the Hungarian Blacksmith Guild during that same time period. However, the record does 
not contain any further information regarding the requirements for appointment as a notary or as a 
"distinguished member." Other than the referenced letter froml I the Petitioner has not 
provided any other primary documentation from the guild, such as its by-laws or similar evidence, that 
addresses its membership requirements or criteria. For these reasons, we agree with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 6. 
4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to meet this criterion, and 
specifically referenced an article that appeared in Daily News Hungary. As explained below, upon de 
nova review, we conclude the Petitioner has not established that the referenced article or other 
submitted published material meet all requirements set forth in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Therefore, we will withdraw the Director's determination that this criterion was 
met. 
With respect to the article from Daily News Hungary, we note that the Petitioner did not offer 
supporting evidence establishing that this publication, which does not appear to be a professional or 
major trade publication, qualifies as major media in Hungary. 3 The Petitioner did not provide, for 
example, circulation statistics showin how its circulation com ares to that of other dail news a ers 
in Hungary. The article, entitled .__-------~-----~-------------' I I" is primarily about the Petitioner's president, who was interviewed by the 
publication for the article, and the Petitioner's~----~ Award-winning project. The article 
explains thatl !selected the Beneficiary and another Hungarian blacksmith for the project 
and mentions that they both worked with him in the past, but the article is not about the Beneficiary. 
Another article, entitled ~----------------~' was published online by 
Kozterkep. While the article is about the Beneficiary's work on a war memorial built in the Hungarian 
town ofl I the article does not identify the author of the material and is not accompanied by a 
certified English translation. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a foll 
English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English 
language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified 
English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the 
translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. In any event, the Petitioner 
did not submit any additional information regarding Kozterkep, such as its circulation statistics and 
intended audience, to establish that it is considered a major trade publication, professional publication 
or other major media. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled .__ ________________ ___. 
.__ ___________ __." While this article is accompanied by a translator's certificate of 
accuracy, the translator identified the source of the article solely as "Website Article 2015." The 
record does not include the original article in the Hungarian language, or the title, author, and date of 
the material. 
None of the other published materials submitted by the Petitioner mention the Beneficiary's name and 
therefore are not about him and his work in the field. 4 Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
4 This evidence includes: another article from an unidentified Hungarian newspaper for which the author. title and date of 
publication were not provided; an excerpt of a book chapter that discusses the Petitioner's '=====,!;,A ward-winning 
project; an Architectural Digest article which briefly mentions the Petitioner's receipt of c1 I I Award; and an 
article from the professional publication The Anvil's Ring which is about the Hungarian Blacksmith Guild and includes an 
interview with one of its members. 
5 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
the beneficiary has made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
With respect to this criterion, the Petitioner indicated that it was submitting testimonial letters 
"attesting to the fact that [the Beneficiary's] work has made a significant contribution to the world of 
blacksmiths." The Petitioner also mentioned that it was providing letters discussing the Beneficiary's 
work on the above-referenced war memorial in the town ofl I Hungary, a letter from the Artist­I L and an advisory opinion from the President of 
the._l _ _, 
The testimonial evidence in the record indicates that the Beneficiary's technical and artistic skills as a 
blacksmith are highly regarded by his peers and experts in the field. 5 However, the letters do not 
identify with specificity an original contribution he has made or explained how he has remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field. For exam]le, the "peer consultation and recommendation" letter 
froml [ president of thel addresses the Beneficiary's use of "old techniques" on 
the Petitioner's award-winning project which involved the fabrication of c=] University's new 
campus gates. She notes that the methods used on the original gates, which had been fabricated more 
than a century ago, were widely used in Eastern Europe but are not common in the United States. She 
did not explain, however, how the techniques the Beneficiary learned in Hungary represent an 
"original contribution," or address their impact on the field. While the project received an award and 
some attention in the architectural field, neitherl Is letter nor the evidence as a whole 
indicate that the Beneficiary himself has been recognized for making an original contribution of major 
significance based on his work. 
The letter froml I president of the I I also notes the Beneficiary's "knowledge and 
experience of traditional methods," mentions his work on the Duniversity project, and states that 
"the level of skills demanded for such work is superior to that of a normally proficient artisan." D I I of I I Studios states that the Beneficiary's "masterful handling of hand forged 
iron on the gates at the Residential College aO are [a] true testament to the dedication of his love 
for fine metalwork," and indicates that "the finished project is a monument for future blacksmiths to 
study and admire for true craftsmanship." The Petitioner also provided a letter from I I 
Mayor ofl lwho notes that the Beneficiary's design for the town's World War II memorial 
was chosen "from a large pool of applicants," and praises him as "an accomplished artist of great 
distinction in the metal craft." 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Beneficiary's mastery of skills and 
Old World techniques and traditions in his craft without providing specific examples of how he has 
made original contributions to the field, or contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
5 While we address only a sampling ofletters here, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
significance in the field. Letters from experts may add value if they specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's original contributions are of major significance and what impact they had on subsequent 
work, while letters that lack specifics do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 For these reasons, we agree with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary meets 
this criterion. The record demonstrates that the Beneficiary has displayed his work at national 
blacksmith exhibitions and other events that qualify as artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary met this criterion based on evidence that he performs a 
critical role for the petitioning company as a master artist -blacksmith. The record adequately supports 
the Director's determination and contains sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner enjoys 
a distinguished reputation in its niche industry of architectural metalworking. Accordingly, we agree 
that this criterion has been met. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those 
performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos 
v. US. Dept. o_f Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information 
for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field). 
The Petitioner indicates that the Beneficiary earns $32.00 per hour ($66,500 annually) and provided 
copies of his IRS Form W-2 for 2017 and recent pay statements issued to him in 2018. 
The Petitioner also submitted screenshots from the Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics 
(www.bls.gov/OES) indicating that the annual mean wage for the occupational category of "Craft 
Artists" (which includes blacksmiths) in thel I metropolitan area is $59,550. 
The Petitioner also provided a screenshot from Salary Expert and emphasized that it demonstrates that 
the average base salary for a blacksmith in the Beneficiary's geographic location is $51,550, thus 
indicating that the Beneficiary's salary is comparatively high. However, the information provided 
from Salary Expert indicates that the average salary for a "senior level blacksmith" with at least eight 
years of experience is $62,722. The Beneficiary has significantly more than eight years of experience, 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 
and the evidence does not reflect that his earnings are "significantly high" in comparison to average 
wages earned by senior level blacksmiths. 
Overall, the information provided reflects that the Beneficiary's past earnings have been, at most, 
slightly above average for a blacksmith in his area and with his level of experience. The Petitioner 
has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in 
relation to others in the field. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Although we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner submitted evidence to meet 
three criteria, we will briefly consider the final merits determination already conducted by the Director, 
and the Petitioner's response on appeal. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Petitioner must 
establish by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international 
acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary was admitted to the Hungarian Blacksmith Guild at a young 
age in 1996, was well-trained in traditional Eastern European artistic metalworking techniques, and 
has displayed his work at artistic displays and exhibitions in Hungary between the years of 2000 and 
2005, where he was twice recognized for his work with first and third place awards at blacksmith 
meetings and gatherings. I I also states that the Petitioner artici ated in other "professional 
events" of the Hungarian Blacksmith Guild includin a 2002 a "Style Practices" master 
course in 2006, and a 2007 exhibition in the.__ __________ __. but these activities are not 
otherwise documented in the record and their significance has not been explained. 
While this evidence indicates that the Petitioner was an active member of the guild and a regular 
participant in displays and exhibitions of his craft, the record does not support a finding that these 
early-career activities and achievements required, reflected, or resulted in national or international 
acclaim or are indicative of the Beneficiary being in the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
As noted, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that membership in the Hungarian Blacksmith Guild 
was based on the Beneficiary's prior outstanding achievements or provide evidence of the significance 
of the Beneficiary's individual awards. Nor did it demonstrate that the displays or exhibitions of his 
work, or the awards he received at those exhibitions, elicited attention from the media, or even from 
the field outside of those participating at the blacksmith meetings. 
Apart from the above-referenced evidence related to the Beneficiary's early career, the record contains 
sparse information regarding his career and achievements between the mid-2000s and 2015, when he 
joined the petitioning company. The Petitioner submitted a letter of reference fromc::J Corporation 
confirming that it employed the Beneficiary in the United States from June 2005 until December 2006 
and applied his ironworking skills to a historical restoration project and on two commercial fabrication 
projects. Other evidence in the record clarifies that the Beneficiary served in an 18-month 
8 
~ceship withc=J where he underwentlpractirl training with the Petitioner's president, D 
L___J who was then a vice president with While the Petitioner demonstrated that this 
company has a dip.ti.rurni,shed reputation, the Petitioner did not provide evidence that the Beneficiary 
or his work witbL__J as an apprentice garnered attention at a level consistent with national or 
international acclaim. This practical training experience was likely valuable to the Beneficiary in his 
artistic and professional development, but the evidence of his activities in the field should be consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary has since operated his own blacksmith shop in Hungary with 
his brothers, but as noted, the Petitioner does not document or mention his continuing activities or 
achievements in the field prior to his return to the United States in 2015, and has therefore has not 
supported a finding that he has the level of sustained national or international acclaim required. For 
exampleJ I states that the Beneficiary "worked with several prestigious metalworking studios 
and design firms in Hungary and internationally" but there is a significant gap in the record with 
respect to explaining or documenting the Petitioner's activities in the field for a lengthy period prior 
to 2015. The evidence does reflect that the Beneficiary received some media attention as a result of 
his work on the town of1 b war memorial project in 2015 or 2016. However, as discussed, 
the media coverage is not sufficiently documented and appears to be local or regional in nature. The 
evidence does not establish that he was selected for the project based on his career of achievements or 
acclaim in the field, or that his completion of the project garnered him national or international 
acclaim. 
Regarding his work with the Petitioner, the record documents the Beneficiary's critical role as one of 
its master blacksmiths. The Petitioner has also substantiated his essential role in executing the 
Petitioner's I I Award-winning project, which has contributed to the company's 
distinguished reputation in the architectural metalworking field. The record reflects, however, that the 
acclaim for that work and any recognition the work has received as a significant architectural 
contribution resides predominantly with the Petitioner and its president, rather than specifically with 
the Beneficiary. For example, only the Petitioner andl I are mentioned in the bookl I 
Further, the one submitted media article that 
discusses the niversity project in detail (from Daily News Hungary) primarily focuses onD I I .__ ___ _.president of thel I, recognizes the Beneficiary "as a team member" who 
contributed to the award-winning project, and the record demonstrates that the Petitioner accompanied I I to thel !Award ceremony. However, the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary's individual work on theOUniversity project is recognized by the overall field as 
having been majorly significant consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The record also contains recommendation letters that praise the Beneficiary's skills and make general 
assertions repeating the statute and regulations. For instance, I lof the I I states that the 
Beneficiary "is a master craftsman of extraordinary skill who has risen to the top of his selected 
metier," and that the I I "do[ es] not object his classification as an extraordinary artist." I I 
I I of the I I states that the Beneficiary "clearly established himself as a successful and 
highly skilled artistic blacksmith" and expresses her opinion that he is "a master craftsman of rare and 
extraordinary ability who has risen to the very top of his field." Although the letters recount the 
9 
Beneficiary's skills in traditional techniques and his notable work with the Petitioner, they do not 
explain or justify their assertions. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 
(S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record 
include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the Beneficiary is viewed by the overall field 
as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The record, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for 
the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record indicates that the Beneficiary has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at 
least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does 
not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly 
denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 
293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6548942 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physicist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had a qualifying one-time achievement or met at least three 
of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted evidence establishes that he meets three 
of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was employed as a Special Fellow/Medical Physics Resident in thel I Clinic's 
.__ _______ rP'""h="'--'s=ic=sa..-=-P-=--,-rogram at the time he filed the petition. 1 He received his bach~ 
degree in physics at.__ ___ _. Universit)'. in 2009, his doctor of philosophy in physics froml__J I I University in 2014, and a I I Accredited Certificate i~ I Physics from I I University Clinic in 2017. According to his resume, the Petitioner has 
~ously served as a research fellow at~--~Clinic and as a postdoctoral researcher at The D 
L_JUniversity. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria. The Director 
found that the Petitioner satisfied two of these criteria relating to judging the work of others in his field 
and authorship of scholarly articles. 2 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). However, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not demonstrate that he satisfied the third claimed 
criterion, relating to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this third criterion. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner indicates that he has accepted an Associate Professor position with ~I -~!University with a 
start date ofJuly 2019. 
2 The Petitioner provided evidence that he has peer reviewed manuscripts for several scientific journals, including Nano 
Research, Physics Letters A, Nanotechnology, and Journal of Applied Physics. Furthermore, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence that he has co-authored articles that were published in peer-reviewed scientific journals including ACS Nano, 
Nano Letters, Nanotechnology, Physical Review Letters and Applied Physics Letters, among others. 
2 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of expert opinion letters 
discussing his research, copies of his published articles along with information regarding the journals 
in which he was published, and evidence that he has been cited by other researchers in their own 
published work. However, the Director determined that the evidence did not substantiate the 
Petitioner's claim that he had made original scientific contributions of major significance. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient consideration to the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion or consider the evidence in its totality. 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 
22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although 
funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work 
is of major significance). For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner identifies four original contributions that he claims have made an impact in the field of 
physics. Although the Petitioner provided expert opinion letters praising him for his research 
contributions, the authors, as discussed below, do not provide specific examples of original 
contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters recount the Petitioner's 
research and findings, indicate their publications in journals, and point to the citation of his work by 
others. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not show how his research and findings 
have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level required 
by this criterion. 
First, the Petitioner describes his work characterizing two-dimension (2D) metal-insulator transition 
m 2D systems, noting that he "discovered a new.__ ______ _. phase 
between th .__ _______ ....,....__, state and the 2D metal-insulator transition" and 
"characterized the .__ __ __.properties of the phase over extended 
temperature and density ranges." of ~niversit[ states that he 
himself "discovered the metal-insulator transition i ._ ______ __. [2D]._ __ ~ system,"3 and 
states that the Petitioner "made remarkable contributions to this research field by characterizing 2D 
holes in '----~--------' using low-temperature electrical transport and thermoelectric 
measurements." He credits the Petitioner's research with solving "the long-standing puzzle of 
discrepancy between theo{ and exrriment observations" and revealing "fundamental information on 
the I I 2D._ ___ ~_systems." I I further describes the work as "far-
reaching" and notes that he and others have cited it in their own published articles. Another letter, 
froml pf theDuniversity ofl ~ describes the Petitioner's studies as 
3 
._I -------;:::::::::!'..b...:!st~a~te~s.,.:::that his discovery has been identified by the American Physical Society as one of the 50 main 
discoveries in! I physics in the twentieth century. 
3 
"fundamental work" in this research area, states that she has performed experiments on 2D._I ___ _. 
systems that are closely related to his work, and notes that she highlighted and discussed the 
Petitioner's studies in one of her own publications. 
These letters confirm that the research conducted by the Petitioner built upon I i's 
discovery, and generated interest amongst other researchers, who were able to apply the Petitioner's 
work to their own research. But it does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of 
physics rises to the level of an original contribution of major significance. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 
4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013); (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met 
this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). For example, while I I describes the work as a "remarkable contribution" that is "far-reaching," he does not 
discuss its specific impact or influence in the field beyond noting that it has been cited by others. 
The Petitioner indicates that two of his original contributions relate to his study of [=====:I 
I I Eirstl he explains that he "uncovered th surface states irL__J 
andl _, which pioneered the study of.__ ______ --.-_____ -,, materials." He 
also indicates that he "determined the thermoelectric properties of,__ ____ __, andl I 
I I, which was insightful for tailoring the electrical and thermal properties of I I" I I, an assistant professor at I I University, states that the 
Petitioner's research in this area "offered valuable information on tailoring the 
properties of.__ ____ _.' and notes that his work withl I , .... ,w-as_c_a_o_st_n_1c-t-iv_e_fo_r__, 
~uent studies on the characterization and utilization o~ I." D 
L__Jindicates that he has cited the Petitioner's published papers in several of his own studies. While 
this evidence confirms that other researchers noted this work in their own published research, D 
I Is letter does not provide sufficient specificity regarding the major significance of this research 
to support the Petitioner's claim that he is recognized as having "pioneered the study o±1 I 
materials." Rather, I I describes the Petitioner's research work as ,__ ______ ~ 
"valuable" and "constructive," without further explaining how it has already impacted or influenced 
the field. 
la professor at University CollegeLJ describes the Petitioner's publications on 
1----
0 _____ ..........,I as "pioneering." He states that "[ t ]he discovery of.__ ______ ~ states 
is the biggest breakthrough in the filed of I I Physics during the last decade." ~ I I does not, however, appear to credit the Petitioner with this discovery. He states that the 
Petitioner's stud revealed "the ossibility of exploiting.__ ___________ ____.for room-
tern erature a lications" and "offered novel insights into tailoring the 
.__ ____ __. properties of for practical applications; hence, it has a long-
lasting impact on I I" While he generally notes the potential 
application of the Petitioner's researchJ I does not explain how it has already significantly 
influenced or impacted their shared field. 
Finally, the Petitioner states that he has synthesized "a novel type of I I alloy for 
.-===== ____ __.harvesting, which can be used for waste heat recovery under high temperature." I Is letter briefly addresses the Petitioner's research in this area, noting that his synthesis 
method "improves the I I power factor, andl I figure of the materials." He 
generally notes the significance of I alloys, noting they possesses properties that 
4 
indicate their potential use in combustion engine powered vehicles, power plants and other areas. 
However, he does not address the significance of the specific I rlloy that the Petitioner 
synthesized, or its current impact or influence on the field. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's 
research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent 
with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. See users Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. Id. at 9. users need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. US. Att'y 
Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' assertions in the above-referenced letters do 
not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely implemented or relied upon by 
others in the field and do not establish that the Petitioner's work has had a demonstrable impact on the 
field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar, but this evidence 
does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of physics rises to the level of an original 
contribution of major significance. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other 
researchers have referenced is not, by itself, indicative of a contribution of major significance. 
Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." Although the Petitioner emphasizes that some of his articles were published in 
high-impact journals, this alone is also insufficient to establish that any individual article is regarded 
in the field as majorly significant. We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence 
that his articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in 
the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as 
authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of 
endeavor." See USCrS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
The Petitioner submitted a chart comparing his total citation record to that of 15 other researchers in 
his field, most of whom are assistant professors of physics or material science at large research 
universities. The Petitioner did not explain what criteria were used to identify these individuals as a 
basis for comparison. Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's 
entire body of published work do not demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely cited and 
relied upon that it is considered to have made an impact of major significance in his field. Comparison 
of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining 
whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination 
The Petitioner also provided evidence from Clarivate Analytics showing that two of his articles were 
ranked among the top 1 % ( and three others were ranked in the top 10%) when grouped by academic 
field (in this case, physics) and year of publication. Comparative rankings to baseline or average 
citation rates do not automatically establish that a given petitioner has made a contribution of major 
significance in the field. A more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the 
Petitioner's citations for individual articles to other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views 
as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. A citation 
5 
ranking does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given 
researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the record. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, any of the five published articles he characterizes 
as highly cited is regarded as an original contribution of major significance. While the Petitioner 
submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, that evidence, for the reasons 
already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, has made a remarkable impact or influence in his field. His two most 
cited articles, published in ACS Nano and Nano Letters, were those referred to by I las 
"constructive for subsequent studies." 
Further, the record indicates that the Petitioner submitted samples of research and review articles that 
cited to his work. A review of those articles, though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's 
research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work. For instance, the Petitioner 
provided a partial article entitled, .__ ________________________ __, 
~--r----~ (Nano Letters), in which the authors cited to his 2012 Nanotechnology article.4 
However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other 42 
cited papers. One of the submitted review articles, titled 
I : I (Advanced Materials), cites to the Petitioner's 2012 
Nano Letters article along with hundreds of other articles. While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has contributed to what appears to be an active field of research, we cannot determine that 
every publication cited in a research or review article is indicative of an individual scientific 
contribution of major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits three non-precedent decisions concerning scientific researchers who 
petitioned under this classification, noting that "previous AAO decisions have repeatedly 
acknowledged the value of the citation record and considered the independent citation itself as solid 
evidence for the influence of the petitioner's work." These decisions were not published as precedents 
and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non­
precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may 
be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. Nevertheless, we note that the Petitioner emphasizes that, in one of the 
referenced decisions, we determined that "documentation showing more than two hundred 
independent citations" to the petitioner's published findings provided "solid evidence that other 
researchers have been influenced by his work and are familiar with it." However, that non-precedent 
decision also highlights the fact that we placed significant weight on the statements of experts who 
clearly described how the petitioner's scientific contributions were both original and of major 
significance in their field. As discussed, the expert opinion letters submitted in this matter do not 
sufficiently explain and demonstrate the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the 
citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow physicists and other experts, establishes that 
the Petitioner has been a productive researcher, and that his published data and findings have been 
relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate, however, that the Petitioner has 
4 Although we discuss two sample articles, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
made a contribution of major significance in the field of physics. Therefore, he has not met this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16699913 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 23, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at 
least three. The Petitioner appealed the matter and we dismissed the appeal. 1 The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which we dismissed as 
untimely, followed by two additional combined motions, which we also dismissed. The matter is 
now before us on a fourth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
To merit reopening or reconsideration, a petitioner must meet the formal filing requirements (such as, 
for instance, submission of a properly completed Form I-2 90B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the 
correct fee), and show proper cause for granting the motion. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5( a)( 1 ). 
A motion to reopen is based on factual grounds and must (1) state the new facts to be provided in the 
reopened proceeding; and (2) be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that we based our decision on an incorrect 
application of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy and that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 SeeMatterofE-G-, ID# 1668798(AAOOct.25,2018) . 
II. ANALYSIS 
The primary issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to dismiss 
her third combined motion to reopen and reconsider was based on an incorrect application of law or 
users policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
The record reflects that we issued our initial decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal on 
October 25, 2018. The Petitioner filed her first combined motion on Thursday, November 29, 2018, 
3 5 days after the decision was issued. A motion must be filed within 3 3 calendar days of the date 
users served the unfavorable decision by mail. See 8 e.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), 103.8(b). 
When computing the period of time for filing an appeal or motion users counts every calendar day 
(including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) starting the first calendar day after the date users 
mailed the unfavorable decision. If the last day of the 33-day filing period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, 
or a legal holiday, the period to file an appeal runs until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, 
Sunday, or legal holiday. See 8 e.F.R. § 1.2. 
Here, we informed the Petitioner that any motion to reopen and/or reconsider our appellate decision 
must be filed within 33 days of our decision dated October 25, 2018. The due date for the Petitioner's 
motion was Tuesday, November 27, 2018, and this date did not fall on a weekend or legal holiday. 
Accordingly, we dismissed the Petitioner's motion, filed on November 29, 2018, as untimely. 
The Petitioner has consistently argued on three subsequent motions that 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) 
allows for a 30-day period to file a motion, and because the 30th day in her case fell on Saturday, 
November 24, 2018, her motion was due on Monday, November 26, 2018. She has further maintained 
that since our decision was mailed, 8 e.F.R. § 103.8(b) provided her with an additional three days, and 
therefore her motion was due on Thursday, November 29, 2019, or 35 days after the date we issued 
our decision. 
In dismissing the most recent motion, we emphasized that the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 103.8(b) 
provides that whenever a person has the right or is required to do some act within a prescribed period 
after the service of a notice upon them and the notice is served by mail, three days shall be added to 
the prescribed period. Because we mailed our decision dismissing the Petitioner's appeal, she was not 
required to file her motion within 30 days. Rather, her prescribed period to submit a motion was 
automatically extended to 33 days. 
We emphasized that this 33-day filing period was clearly communicated to her when our appellate 
decision was issued, and the 33rd day fell on Tuesday, November 27, 2018. As the last day of the 
filing period did not fall on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 1.2 was 
not applicable to our evaluation of whether the Petitioner's initial motion was timely. Accordingly, 
we determined that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that we incorrectly applied this or any other 
regulation or users policy to the facts of her case or dismissed her previous combined motion in 
error. 
2 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
In the brief submitted in support of the instant motion, the Petitioner states: 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a) spells out a 30-day period for filing of a motion to reopen and/or 
motion to reconsider. It does not state 3 3 days or add the three days for mailing first, 
nor does it provide for any other period. In this case, the 30th day fell on a Saturday, 
November 24, 2018. This is a fact and AAO admitted that the three days were added 
to the date ofNovember24,2018. 
The Petitioner maintains that "it is an error to disregard that the computing period shall run until 
Monday, November 26, 2018, under 8 C.F.R. § 1.2." She further argues that "AAO has no authority 
to automatically add the three days for mailing without verifying if the prescribed period falls on a 
weekend or a holiday. Disregarding 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 is a failure to properly interpret the code." 
With respect to the Petitioner's assertion that we have no authority to extend the filing period to 33 
days, we emphasize that such authority derives from 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b ). USCIS' interpretation of 
that regulation as automatically adding three days to the filing period for appeals and motions in cases 
where our decision is served by mail is stated in the USCJS Policy Manuaf2 and the AAO Practice 
Manual. 3 Further we did not "disregard" the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 in this case. We determined 
that it did not apply because the last day of the 33-day filing period applicable to this motion did not 
fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday. 
While the Petitioner continues to disagree that 8 C.F.R. § 103 .8(b) automatically extends the 
prescribed period for filing motions and appeals to 33 days, she has not pointed to any instance in 
which USCIS has adopted a different interpretation of this regulation or otherwise supported her claim 
that it was incorrectly applied here. 
Nor has she otherwise provided support for her claim that 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 should apply to the 30-day 
filing period provided by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(i) rather than the 33-day filing period provided by 8 
C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(8), which applied in this case. The extension of the filing period contemplated by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 1.2 applies only when the last day of a '"computed"period for taking action 
falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. Here, the period computed for the Petitioner to file a 
motion on our decision that was served by mail on October 25, 2018 was 33 days, with the 33rd day 
falling on Tuesday, November 27, 2018. 
Finally, in our decision dismissing the Petitioner's second motion, we noted that she had cited to 8 
C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h ), which is applicable to appeals that fall under the jurisdiction of the Board of 
Immigration Appeals, rather than the nearly identical regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 1.2, which is applicable 
to appeals before our office. In the previous motion, the Petitioner referred to a non-precedent 
2 Sec 6 USCJS Policy Manual J.5, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual(statingthat the petitioner must file the appeal or 
motion within 3 0 days oft he denial or dismissal, or 3 3 days if the denial or dismissal decision was sent by mail," and citing 
to 8 C.F.R. I 03.5(a)(l )(i)and8 C.F.R. I 03.8(b)). 
3 SeeAAOPracticeManual, Ch. 4.6(c), https://www.uscis.gov/aao-practice-manual(statingthat "[a]ppellants must file a 
motion within 30 days of the unfavorable decision (or33 days if the decision is mailed)" and that "[i]fa notice is served 
by mail, three days are automatically added to the stated period to perform the specified act" citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b)). 
3 
decision, noting that "AAO has previously sustained matters relying on 8 C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h)." We 
emphasized in our decision dismissing the third motion that the referenced decision was not published 
as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3(c ). 
In her brief in support of this motion, the Petitioner asserts that "AAO was mandated by United States v. 
Granderson, 511 U.S. 39, 56, 114 S.Ct. 1259, 127 L.Ed.2d 611 (1994) to interpret the code consistently." 
She states that "if AAO has previously adjudicated a case relying on 8 C.F.R. § 1001.1 (h), absent the 
reversal of the non-precedent decision, it should have interpreted the code consistently." We note that 
the Petitioner in this matter, unlike the applicant in the non-precedent decision referenced above, did not 
have a prescribed filing period for her initial motion that ended on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, 
and neither the regulation at 8 C.F.R § 1.2 or 8 C.F.R. § 1001. l(h) applies. Based on the facts presented, 
the outcome of this matter was not inconsistent with the outcome in the cited non-precedent decision. 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss her third motion to reopen and reconsider 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. Accordingly, the motion to reconsider 
will be dismissed. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
Although the Petitioner indicates that she is concurrently filing a motion to reopen, she has not 
presented new facts or evidence for consideration in this proceeding and has not met the requirements 
of a motion to reopen at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Accordingly, the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 24, 2019 
APPEAL ON NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in public health, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofL-L-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist and principal statistician at the 
Because she has not indicated or established 
that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found 
that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the 
Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for journals. In addition, she authored scholarly 
articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets an additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter ofL-L-
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine 
whether she has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that she "developed a completely new evaluation plan for assessing the 
effectiveness and the impacts of policies regarding the restriction of menthol and flavored tobacco 
products, in addition to applying this framework to make important findings particularly regarding the 
impacts on tobacco use among vulnerable groups." The Petitioner provides an "Evaluation Plan" from 
the -========------===------======- for In addition, the Petitioner references 
previously submitted letters from and 
Although indicated that the Petitioner "designed the evaluation plan of this campaign, 
which provided guidelines about how to evaluate the effectiveness and impact of this statewide 
intervention," and did not specifically mention the "Evaluation Plan." In fact, 
the Petitioner cites to their letters relating to her research on marijuana use. The Petitioner did not 
demonstrate, nor do their letters reflect, that and discussed her contributions 
regarding tobacco evaluation plan. 2 
Moreover, while the Director found that the evaluation plan, which she submitted in response to the 
request for evidence (RFE), occurred after the filing of the petition, the Petitioner argues that the plan 
"was first established in 2015" and "can be used as evidence of an original contribution of major 
significance."3 According to the Petitioner commenced employment with in 
January 2016, after the establishment of the "Evaluation Plan." Furthermore, at the initial filing of the 
petition, the Petitioner submitted her curriculum vitae where she generally indicated that she 
"[m]anag[ed] the evaluation of statewide tobacco control interventions" but did not mention the 
"Evaluation Plan." However, in response to the RFE, the Petitioner presented an updated curriculum 
vitae reflecting that she "[ d]evelop[ ed] the evaluation plan and conduct[ ed] the evaluation of: 
[emphasis added]." 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 A review of the "Evaluation Plan" reflects a study on menthol cigarettes and flavored tobacco products without any 
reference to marijuana use. 
3 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1). 
3 
.
Matter ofL-L-
Although the record shows that the "Evaluation Plan" was initiated by before her employment, 
the record does reflect that she contributed to it at some point. However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate when the results were finalized, released, or implemented to show that any benefits or 
outcomes occurred prior to the filing of the petition. 4 In fact, the record contains a letter submitted at 
initial filing from chief of . who indicated that the Petitioner "designed the 
evaluation of this campaign" and "[t]he evaluation results will [emphasis added] facilitate the adoption 
of more jurisdictions and policies that restrict menthol and flavored tobacco products, and will 
[emphasis added] also allow to chart successes." Here, speculates on the potential 
influence and on the possibility of being impactful without establishing how the plan already qualified 
as contribution of major significance in the field. 
Similarly, stated that as of July 2018, 18 jurisdictions in California have adopted policies 
that restrict menthol and flavored tobacco products, and the evaluation results "are being considered 
by [four] other states for planning their further campaign intervention design." Again, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that letter showed her eligibility at time of filing. Moreover, while 
indicated the number of jurisdictions in California who have adopted policies, the Petitioner 
did not establish the impact of the plan on the overall field. 5 Further, did not provide 
specific, detailed information demonstrating that the field recognized her plan as being majorly 
significant beyond some jurisdictions adopting unidentified policies in California and possible interest 
from other states. 6 For example, did not articulate what actions the jurisdictions 
implemented as a result from the plan and how they reduced tobacco use. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that the "Evaluation Plan" was "supported by federal funding under 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National State-Based Tobacco Control Program." 
Receiving funding to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself 
Rather, the Petitioner must establish that receiving grants or other similar funding are reflective of her 
past works' major significance, or that her work conducted with the funding resulted in contributions 
of major significance. Here, while the Petitioner's "Evaluation Plan" was federally funded, she did 
not demonstrate that her plan caused a major, significant contribution. In addition, she did not show 
how the federal funding reflected the importance of her contributions to the overall field. 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that she has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify her original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance to the field. The Petitioner submits her 
updated citation history from Google Scholar reflecting that her six articles received 31, 25, 19, 12, 
11, 5 citations, respectively. In addition, the Petitioner contends that her articles appeared in "high-
4 The "Evaluation Plan" reflects a period covering March 30, 2015 to March 29, 2017. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
6 The Petitioner also offers a screenshot from edu and indicates that she was invited and presented a 
seminar of her evaluation study at in Georgia. The screenshot does not reflect when the 
presentation occurred, and the Petitioner did not establish that a one-time seminar demonstrates a majorly significant 
contribution to the greater field. 
4 
Matter ofL-L-
profile journal publications." Here, the Petitioner does not articulate the significance or relevance of 
these numbers. Although her citations are indicative that her research has received some attention 
from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her citation numbers to her individual articles 
represent majorly significant contributions to the field.7 Generally, citations can serve as an indication 
that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently 
identified the specific contributions she has made through her written work, nor has she shown that 
her citations for any of her published articles are commensurate with contributions of major 
significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the 
publication's overall citation rate. It does not, however, demonstrate an author's influence or impact 
of research on the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that all six of her papers rank between the top .10% and 10% in her 
field for the respective year of publication and references previously submitted documentation from 
InCites Essential Science Indicators from Thomson Reuters. The comparative ranking to baseline or 
average citation rates, however, does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions to 
the field. 8 Once again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field rather than where her citation rates rank among others 
in her field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's 
citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major 
significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Publications and presentations are 
not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." 
See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated, as she asserts, that every article she has authored and published 
resulted in an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, the Petitioner indicates that her work has been cited by other researchers and scientists whose 
papers have been published in highly ranked journals. However, the citation of the Petitioner's article 
by another in a highly ranked journal does not automatically demonstrate that her research or article 
is viewed as a contribution of major significance. Moreover, a review of the sample articles provided 
by the Petitioner does not show the significance of her research to the overall field beyond the authors 
who cited to her work. For instance, the Petitioner offered a partial article from BMC Public Health 
that does not distinguish or highlight her written work from the other 73 other cited papers in the 
article. 9 In the case here, the Petitioner has not shown that her published articles through citations rise 
to a level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
8 For instance, according to the data fromlnCites, clinical medicine papers published in 2016 receiving only one citation 
were in the top 10% and papers receiving only eight citations were in the top .10%. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that papers with such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field regardless 
of whether they were among the top .10% or 10% of most highly cited articles according to the year of publication. 
9 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
.
Matter ofL-L-
Finally, the Petitioner claims that her "work has been highly praised by numerous independent experts 
in her field and allied fields who not only attest as to its significance but also its impact on their own 
work." While the recommendation letters summarize the Petitioner's professional accomplishments, 
they do not explain how her research and written work have been considered by the field to be of 
major significance. For example, discussed the citation of the Petitioner's paper 
in his own written work and asserted that it "is sure to benefit the field of severe obesity and bariatric 
surgery." 10 Here, did not explain how the Petitioner's research has already benefited the 
overall field of severe obesity and bariatric surgery, as well as how the field views it as a contribution 
of major significance. 
The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact her research has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value.11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59(Sept.19, 1990);seealsosection203(b)(l)(A)oftheAct. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
10 While we reference a sample letter, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
12 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian , 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not e>..'Plain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
Matter ofL-L-
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of L-L-, ID# 2814325 (AAO Apr. 24, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23372976 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 25, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician and contends he has a track record of success and sustained national and 
international acclaim. The Petitioner further stated he is an accomplished gastroenterologist who assumed 
key positions within distinguished medical and heath institutions. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have 
satisfied nine of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same of allied field 
• (v), alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of 
major significance in the field 
• ( vi), evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media 
• (vii), display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging the work of others 
and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner withdraws the criteria of membership 
and published material about the individual but asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's judging the works of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has received lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. When determining 
whether an individual has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, we consider factors such as: the criteria used to grant the awards 
or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number 
of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he was recognized by appearing on the 2008 Saude Analise's list 
of the He provided a printout of the magazine 
article awarding him the title, and explained the candidates are selected by other doctors who have the 
scientific knowledge necessary to judge their colleagues in the industry. The Petitioner also provided 
an article, dated 2013, from SEMPR that stated the Yearbook Analise Saude 2013 had 
published a list of 2,000 doctors who had been chosen as "most admired" in their specialties by their 
medical colleagues. However, the record does not fully explain, or present evidence, regarding the 
selection processes. Nor does it contain sufficient information or supporting evidence about the 
competition that would support the Petitioner's claim that these awards should be considered a national 
or international award for excellence in the field of gastroenterology. Absent, for example, 
information regarding the number of competitors in the Petitioner's category, or evidence of how the 
medical colleagues select their top doctors, or evidence of the level of recognition associated with this 
award, we cannot find that the Petitioner has satisfied each element of the criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than having major significance to 
a project or to an organization. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022)(citing 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 2013)). The regulatory phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 
(2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute is to be given effect and none should 
needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate another provision or to have no 
consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than 
being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes that the 
Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying 
all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that his published work, funded research, and peer reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals show the significance of his contributions to his field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
submits articles he authored and a citation record that indicated his work was cited 50 times. 
3 
The Petitioner contends his articles were published in leading journals. Although we acknowledge 
the achievement of publishing articles in journals, what is lacking is the Petitioner's account of how 
that equates to this criterion's requirements. While being published in prestigious journals certainly 
suggests the Petitioner's research is valuable, it does not necessarily mean that his valued research has 
significantly contributed to the field as a whole. Publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of major significance. The Petitioner did not establish 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
His arguments regarding the collective or total number of citations to his published work also fails to 
meet this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner focuses on his total number of citations, but not on 
any particular single article while also comparing that recognition to other leading articles in his field. 
In general, the comparison of a Petitioner's cumulative citations to those of others in the field in an 
attempt to draw a conclusion of their comparative impact in the field, is often more appropriate within 
a final merits determination after they have satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. Such a 
comparison may assist in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 
We view a comparison of citations to individual scientific articles to be more relevant for this criterion 
to establish the overall field's general view of a contribution of major significance. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate 
her impact in the field as a whole). For example, he did not provide the citation rates of other 
recognized contributions of major significance within the field for comparison purposes. Nor has the 
Petitioner shown that a notable number of the citing authors placed unusual reliance on his work. The 
Petitioner also did not establish what an average or high citation rate is within his specialized field. 
Even considering the Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion, we still conclude he has not 
shown that his work has resulted in a marked impact within the field. In the end, the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The plain language of this criterion limits it to artistic exhibitions and showcases rather than scientific 
ones. The Petitioner claimed his evidence qualified as comparable evidence for consideration. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily 
apply to a petitioner's occupation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that doctors do not have their work displayed in artistic exhibitions 
or showcases because it does not apply to that line of work. Instead, the Petitioner states that 
comparable evidence for this criterion is published work presented and exhibited in scientific 
meetings, medical symposiums and conventions. With regard to display of the person's work, the 
evidence must demonstrate that the venues were "artistic" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
4 
For instance, a scientific researcher who displays his work at a conference, symposium, workshop, or 
meeting would not meet the requirements of this criterion. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1122 (9th Cir. 2010) (finding that self-publishing a textbook, lecturing at a community college, and 
presenting at conferences were not displays at artistic exhibitions or showcases consistent with the 
relevant regulatory language). Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this 
criterion, including through the submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy 
and through the role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish 
if a role is or was, in fact, leading. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
F.2(B)(2)(Appendices). If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion requires that the 
organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy 
reflects that organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. (citing to 
the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The 
Petitioner's do not. 
The Petitioner stated that he currently holds a critical position at _______ in Florida as a 
research fellow. He further explained that is consistently ranked as one of the best hospitals in the 
United States. I !Manager and Research Program/MDT Coordinator, stated that a 
research fellow in colorectal surgery department is a critical position as they conduct clinical 
research, formal study meetings, administrative meetings, and a weekly formal course in clinical research 
methodology. She also explained how the Petitioner designed studies and wrote manuscripts and 
conducted important research that assisted in the continued advancement of the industry overall. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I lof the Digestive 
Disease Center and Chair of the Department of Colorectal Surgery. I I stated that Oinvited 
the Petitioner to relocate in the United States and collaborate and contribute further developing medical 
knowledge in his area of expertise. He further indicated the Petitioner has been a "highly active member 
of important research projects," and the information derived from these projects will provide0with 
data for future studies and help obtain further grants and awards. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends he plays a leading role atD as noted in the support letters. Although 
the two letters fromOconfirm the importance of the Petitioner's contributions as a research fellow, 
they do not establish that he performed a leading or critical role forOas a whole, such as by showing 
he influenced its overall reputation or status, or was responsible for the success of the organization. 
While the Petitioner worked on research projects to enhance program, and thereby supported its 
mission, he did not provide sufficient documentary evidence to show that his duties and 
responsibilities were critical to the greater organization. The two letters do not describe with sufficient 
detail how the Petitioner himself played a critical role in the successesDenjoyed. Although Mr. I lstated that the Petitioner's involvement in research projects contributed to new data and 
possibly more funding for future projects, he did not provide specific examples. Every employee 
fulfills some kind of role that benefits their employer in some way. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that his work for was critical to the organization itself, rather than to the outcome of 
specific, limited tasks or projects. 
On appeal, the Petitioner further contends that he played a critical role as co-founder of a medical practice 
in Brazil, the (IPC). The Petitioner submitted a letter from IPC's Technical 
Director confirming that from 1982 to 2018 the Petitioner was IPC' s founder and chief of staff, attending 
physician, gastrointestinal surgeon, and researcher. While it does appear as though the Petitioner played 
a leading role as founder and chief of staff at IPC, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence that 
IPC enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that INBRAP, the Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion and Research, 
awarded the practice I I in 2005 for the category of Ambulatory Care Services. According 
to a print-out from INBRAP's website, the award is given annually to "companies, entities and 
professionals that really make a difference .... " It also stated that the award is considered one of the most 
important "marketing" awards. Without further information, we cannot determine that a company with 
this award should be considered one with a distinguished reputation. 
In summary, the evidence provided does not sufficiently demonstrate the Petitioner performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. The 
letters considered above primarily contain bare assertions of acclaim and vague claims of contributions 
without specifically identifying contributions and providing specific examples of how those 
contributions rose to a level consistent with major significance in the field. Merely repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See F edin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. V. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Similarly, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory assertions. See 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. At 17. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden 
6 
to provide geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); 
see also Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional 
golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 
712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a 
comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering 
NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The burden 
is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, but are not 
limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working in different 
countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that country, 
rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would 
be considered high in the United States. 
The Petitioner provided a letter from the senior accountant in charge of his personal and corporate tax 
returns in Brazil. The letter stated thel I is solely owned by the 
Petitioner and the company was structured to register the income from the Petitioner's professional 
activities as a doctor. He explained the Petitioner has full control of the company and the company's 
profits are reported as regular income on the Petitioner's individual income tax forms. The Petitioner 
also provided copies of his 2010-2019 Brazilian personal income tax returns. The Petitioner did not 
provide a full translation of these documents but instead provided partial translations. Any document 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit properly certified English language translations, we cannot 
meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's 
claims. 
Nor did the Petitioner provide any documentation regarding the company to corroborate the claim that 
the Petitioner owns it. Without information of the company's ownership and without a full translation 
of his tax documents, it is impossible to determine if the Petitioner's full income arose from his work 
as a doctor. It is not clear if the Petitioner's income tax return shows the income he received as the 
owner, or as a doctor. Without sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's compensation as a physician, 
we are unable to compare the Petitioner's income with the submitted wage data. 
We find that the evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
7 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 1 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 25, 2024 In Re: 30586351 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plastic surgeon, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his qualification for eight. Issues and prior 
eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 
n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). For the reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets at least three categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
USCIS determines if the person was the recipient of prizes or awards. 1 The description of this type of 
evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or 
prizes, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
USCIS then determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award, which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 As indicated by the plain 
language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of 
recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one­
time achievement. 4 
The Petitioner references a letter from the and claims it "confirms that in 2019 
the Petitioner was awarded 'Best Plastic Surgeon."' Neither the letter nor the record supports this 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
2 
assertion. At initial filing, the Petitioner stated that he "was nominated for this award for his significant 
contributions to the development of plastic surgery in Kyrgyzstan," and the "Petitioner didn't end up 
winning the award that year but it's noteworthy that he was nominated for a prestigious international 
award for the first time in his life." Moreover, the letter from A-Y-, national director of the I II I indicated the Petitioner's "nomination" for the award. Thus, the Petitioner did not 
show that he "was awarded 'Best Plastic Surgeon"'; rather, the record reflects his nomination for the 
award. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires evidence of an individual's "receipt" of 
prizes or awards. Because he did not receive the "Best Plastic Surgeon" award, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate eligibility for this criterion. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that being 
nominated for an award is tantamount to receipt of one, as required by this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, we need not determine whether the Petitioner meets the other elements of this criterion. 
Similarly, the Petitioner indicates eligibility based on the ______ magazine -People's 
Choice Awards (2015)." At initial filing, the Petitioner stated that "[t]he award ceremony was 
scheduled to be held on I I 2020 -but due to the pandemic, the event was postponed 
indefinitely," "[t]he best professionals from Kazakhstan and neighboring countries were nominated 
for this award," and "[i]f the applicant wins, this will be his first international award." Although the 
Petitioner submitted screenshots from I .kz, the evidence is in a foreign language, and the 
Petitioner did not provide the required certified English language translations. Any document in a 
foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that 
they are competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Without properly executed 
English language translations, the Petitioner did not corroborate any of his assertions. Furthermore, 
based on his claims, the Petitioner did not establish he actually received the award but was only 
nominated and assumed he would win the award at some undetermined time in the future. Eligibility 
must be established at the time of filing the benefit request. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). For these reasons, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate he received the award, and we therefore need not determine whether 
he meets the other elements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility for this criterion based on an _______ magazine 
(2016) award." The Petitioner provided a "Certificate of Honor" as receipt of the award. However, 
the Petitioner did not offer any evidence establishing the national or international recognition of the 
award for excellence in the field. Without additional evidence and information, simply submitting 
evidence of receipt of an award is insufficient to satisfy this criterion unless an individual also 
demonstrates the award's national or international recognition for excellence in the field. We note the 
Petitioner asserts that"[a ]ttachments 1 and 2 to the initial response to RFE [ request for evidence] dated 
as of April 1, 2022, included copies of articles and official web pages where the information on each 
award was posted." Besides the "Certificate of Honor," the record does not reflect the Petitioner 
submitted any other documentation relating to the award at initial filing or in 
response to any of the Director's RFEs, including attachments 1 and 2. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on "recognition from the ___ _________ for an award named after I.K. Akhunbaev (2019)," and the record contains 
a "Certificate of Honor." The Petitioner also asserts that "[ a ]s submitted in the second response to 
RFE, a reference letter from [M-B-1-] from March 17, 2023, clearly states the petitioner's 
achievements before for which he was recognized for the award." The record does not 
3 
contain a letter by M-B-I-, dated March 17, 2023. The record does include a letter by 
M-B-I-, dated August 15, 2022. However, page 7, which is purportedly the signature page from 
M-B-I-, is in a different font than the rest of the pages. Due to this inconsistency, the letter lacks 
probative value, and the Petitioner did not show M-B-I-authored the letter. Notwithstanding, the letter 
makes no mention ofthe "Certificate of Honor," discusses the national or international recognition for 
excellence of the award in the field, or the Petitioner ever receiving an award from I I Again, 
without additional evidence and information, simply submitting evidence of receipt of an award is 
insufficient to satisfy this criterion unless an individual also demonstrates the award's national or 
international recognition for excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims membership requires that members 
have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. 5 The 
petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 6 
On appeal, although he briefly indicates his membership with the Society of Specialists in Aesthetic 
Medicine of the Kyrgyz Republic (SSAMKR), the Petitioner does not contest the Director's decision 
or address his eligibility with SSAMKR. Rather, the Petitioner's brief only makes eligibility 
arguments relating to his membership with the Society of Aesthetic and Reconstructive Surgeons of 
Kyrgyzstan (SARSK). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 
336 n.5; see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (declining to address a "passing 
reference" to an argument in a brief that did not provide legal support). Therefore, we will only 
respond to the Petitioner's membership with SARSK. 
Initially, the Petitioner provided a "Reference" document from K-I-K-, chairman of SARSK, who 
indicated the Petitioner's membership and stated that "Criteria for acceptance into society: Passing 
specializations; Peer recommendations; Work in the specialty." In response to the Director's first 
RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter purportedly from K-I-K, who indicated that he is the president 
and claimed that "a candidate must meet strict criteria in addition to passing specializations and 
demonstrating their current active status as plastic surgeons." In addition, the letter stated that "[t]he 
further criteria that grant an applicant membership in SARSK are defined in Sec. 3.2 of the Official 
Statute (By-Laws) of SARSK" and listed several criteria, such as being certified by the Ministry of 
Health of the Kyrgyz Republic; having at least five years of experience practicing in their specialty; 
having published scholarly articles, theses, or methodological manuals; having performed a minimum 
number of mammoplasties, blepharoplasties, abdominoplasties, and facial reconstructive surgeries; 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
4 
demonstrating significant contributions in professional research or showing clinical excellence in the 
plastic surgery specialty; and being endorsed by an existing member. 
Similar to the discussion of the letter purportedly from M-B-I-, this letter consists of three pages with 
the last signatory page in a different font from the other two pages. In addition, the last sentence of 
the letter on page 2 states that "[a]n applicant's candidacy is judged by the President of [SARSK] and 
3 Board Members ofthe Association who are all." On page 3, the letter does not continue the sentence 
from page 2. Instead, page 3 restarts the cited sentence from page 2 and then claims "nationally and 
internationally established plastic surgeons with a minimum of ten (10) years of active professional 
experience, and who hold a Certificate of Excellence in Healthcare of Kyrgyzstan." The Director 
issued another RFE and requested information on the individuals who review candidates for 
membership with SARSK and a copy of the section of the by-laws indicated in the letter. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a "Provision" document for SARSK. Section 3.2 states that 
"[ t ]he register is a database for recording and storing information about members of the Association 
and is maintained in electronic form." The Petitioner did not demonstrate that this section supports 
the statement from K-I-K-'s letter as it does not reflect "further criteria that grant an applicant 
membership in SARSK as defined in Sec. 3.2 ofthe Official Statute (By-Laws) ofSARSK." However, 
section 2.3.3 states: 
Individuals admitted to the Association have merits in the field of plastic, 
reconstructive and aesthetic surgery; are certified by the Ministry of Health of the 
Kyrgyz Republic; have relevant experience of five years or more, have published 
scientific articles or manuals on plastic, reconstructive and aesthetic surgery; 
performed from 75 mammoplasty, from 60 blepharoplasty, from 90 abdominoplasty, 
from 25 facial reconstructive operations; and having a recommendation to acquire the 
status of a member of the Association from an active member of the Association 
Council. 
Furthermore, section 2.5 states that "[t]he decision on admission to membership in the Association is 
made by the Association Council by a simple majority of votes." The Petitioner also submitted a 
screenshot from doctors.kg about K-I-K-and another letter purportedly from K-I-K-. Again, page 3 
of the letter is in a different font than the first two pages and makes no mention of SARSK, let alone 
any discussion of the membership requirements. 
Due to the inconsistencies, the letters lack probative value, and the Petitioner did not show that 
K-I-K-authored any of them. Moreover, the first letter repeats the regulatory language of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and inserts membership requirements not indicated in the "Provision" document, such 
as demonstrating significant contributions in professional research or showing clinical excellence in 
the plastic surgery specialty versus no such requirements and being judged by the president ofSARSK 
and three board members who have at least ten years of experience and hold a "Certificate of 
Excellence in Healthcare ofKyrgyzstan" versus by a simple majority ofvotes. Repeating the language 
of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, 
Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Because the letters are not credible, we will not 
assign any weight to the content contained therein. 
5 
Based on the "Provision" document, the Petitioner did not establish that SARSK requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. The Petitioner did not show that being certified to perform plastic 
surgery, gaining years of experience, or performing a number of surgeries rises to the level of 
outstanding achievements. Relevant facts that may lead to a conclusion that the person's membership 
in the association was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited 
to, instances where the person's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of 
experience in a particular field. 7 
Furthermore, although the "Provision" document indicates admission is by a majority of votes, the 
Petitioner did not show that membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner did not establish that the voters are comprised of recognized national or international 
experts in their fields or disciplines. Specifically, the Petitioner only offered information about 
K-I-K-rather than about the others in SARSK who also judge the candidates for membership. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
users first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 8 users then determines whether the 
publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media 
publication. 9 
At the outset, the Petitioner initially claimed eligibility for this criterion based on six articles. In both 
of the RFEs, the Director pointed to issues involving the documentation, such as unidentified authors, 
untranslated material, missing publication dates or source references, and non-relatable articles. 
Neither of the Petitioner's responses addressed these issues or offered any new documentation. On 
appeal, the Petitioner submits new evidence. Because the Petitioner was put on notice and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence, we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); 
Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) ( declining to consider new evidence submitted 
on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on two previously submitted articles. 
Both articles, posted on kgma.kg, do not contain authors of the material, as required by the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Moreover, although the first article appears to be an interview of the 
Petitioner, the second article reflects commentary of a trauma surgeon without any evidence that the 
article is about the Petitioner. In fact, the Petitioner's name is never mentioned in the article. The 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
9 Id. 
6 
published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the field. 1°Finally, the 
Petitioner did not provide any evidence establishing that kgma.kg is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. 11 Without additional evidence and information, simply submitting 
an article is insufficient to show the nature or standing of the medium. 
For all these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), users determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 12 users then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 13 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 14 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to the previously discussed letter from M-B-I-. Notwithstanding the 
lack of probative value, the Petitioner argues that M-B-I-discussed his work, such as conducting 
surgeries and procedures, at I I However, the letter does not further elaborate and explain how 
the Petitioner's contributions have been majorly significant in the overall field rather than limited to 
I I See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not 
met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). Moreover, the 
letter does not articulate how the Petitioner's professional achievements at somehow 
influenced or affected the field in a majorly significant manner. 15 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance. 16 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 17 
In this case, the letter lacks specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. users need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.e. Dist. 1990). 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
11 Id. (in evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, 
relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, 
readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 
12 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
15 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's 
original work constitutes major, significant contributions in the field). 
16 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
17 Id. 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
First, USCIS determines whether the person has authored scholarly articles in the field. 18 As defined 
in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or 
philosophical discourse. 19 It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated 
with a college, university, or research institution. 20 Scholarly articles are generally peer reviewed by 
other experts in the field of specialization.21 In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a 
bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
expressed in the article. 22 
In response to the first RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I-O-K-, professor and provost at 
who indicated that "the original findings presented in [the Petitioner's] graduation thesis are 
currently being implemented in the curriculum ofl I" In the second RFE, the Director informed 
the Petitioner that "[r]eview of the evidence did not confirm the [Petitioner's] authorship of scholarly 
articles" and the thesis was currently being implemented "was not seen in the evidence." The 
Petitioner did not address this issue or provide additional evidence in his second RFE response. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "the Director erred in not giving enough weight to [I-O-K-'s] 
statement, considering that she is a Professor and a Provost of the I First, the Petitioner did 
not provide corroborating evidence, such as his thesis. Further, the letter lacks specific, detailed 
information. For instance, the letter does not indicate basic information about the thesis such as the 
title or date or describe the thesis' subject or findings in order to show its qualification as a scholarly 
article. 
The second portion of the criterion determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major medium. 23 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the 
publication of his thesis, let alone in a professional or major trade publication or major medium. In 
addition, I-O-K-'s letter makes no mention of the thesis' publication. 
For all these reasons, the Petitioner did not show he satisfies this criterion. 
18 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
19 Id. 
20 Id. 
21 Id. 
22Id. 
23 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (in evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience ( for professional journals) and the 
circulation or readership relative to other media in the field (for major media)). 
8 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner contends that "[i]t should be noted that the decision did not acknowledge the 
Petitioner's claim that he could satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), which relates to 
commercial success in plastic surgery, and therefore does not include any acknowledgement or 
analysis of this third claimed evidentiary criterion." 
First, the record does not reflect the Petitioner made any eligibility claim for this criterion at initial 
filing, in response to the first RFE, or in response to the second RFE. In fact, in the Director's first 
RFE, the Director indicated that "[cc ]ounsel for the [Petitioner] did not claim this criterion." In 
response, the Petitioner did not address this criterion, nor did he submit any relating documentation. 
Second, this criterion relates to persons in the performing artists, such as actors and singers; the 
Petitioner is a plastic surgeon. The Petitioner does not argue on appeal how he qualifies for this 
criterion. Moreover, this criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of 
the person's commercial success in the performing arts. 24 The evidence must show that the volume 
of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in 
similar pursuits in the performing arts. 25 The record contains no evidence of the Petitioner's receipts 
or sales to show commercial successes in the performing arts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
Although the Director indicated the Petitioner's initial claim of comparable evidence in both RFEs, 
the Petitioner never addressed this issue in either of his responses. On appeal, the Petitioner argues 
that he "submitted five (5) detailed testimonial letters in support of his extraordinary abilities from 
plastic surgeons, directors of medical centers, and provost of the medical academy as additional 
comparable evidence to establish [his] eligibility." 
USCIS determines if the evidence is comparable to the evidence required in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).26 
This regulatory provision provides petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable evidence to 
establish the person's eligibility, if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria described in the 
regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. 27 When evaluating such comparable 
evidence, officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to the person's 
occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria listed in that 
regulation. 28 
24 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
25 Id. 
26 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
27 Id. 
28 Id. 
9 
A general unsupported assertion that the evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to the petitioner's 
occupation is not probative.29 Similarly, general claims that USCIS should accept witness letters as 
comparable evidence are not persuasive. 30 Here, the Petitioner indicates his submission of letters 
without explaining which criterion or criteria do not apply to his occupation, and the Petitioner does 
not articulate how the letters are comparable in meeting the particular criterion or criteria. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate his testimonial letters qualify for the comparable 
evidence provision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies six categories of evidence, including through comparable 
evidence, discussed above. Although the Petitioner also argues eligibility for the leading or critical 
role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we 
need not reach these additional grounds because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 ). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 31 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
29 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
30 Id. 
31 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
10 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13072720 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney whose practice focuses on international law and policy, seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The Petitioner then filed 14 combined 
motions to reopen and reconsider. Some of these motions were dismissed; others were granted, in 
whole or in part; but each decision affirmed the core determination that the Petitioner did not establish 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The matter is now before us on the 15th combined motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements ( such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are 
disfavored for the same reasons as petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of 
newly discovered evidence. INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) ( citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 
94 (1988)); see also Colors oflndiav. Nielsen, No. CV 18-4070-MWF (ASX), 2020 WL 3841042, at 
*3 (C.D. Cal. Mar. 6, 2020). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
who have earned sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability, and whose entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-{x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner filed his 14th motion in November 2019; we dismissed that motion in June 2020. By 
regulation, the scope of the Petitioner's 15th and latest motion to reconsider is limited to errors of fact, 
law, or policy in our June 2020 decision. 
2 
One of the regulatory eligibility criteria concerns performance in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(viii). In our 
June 2020 decision, we affirmed a prior finding that the Petitioner's vice chairmanship of a committee of 
the ArnericanBar Association (ABA) occurred after the petition's filing date, and therefore couldnot 
establish eligibility at the time of filing. On motion, the Petitioner states that this finding "was 
incomplete," because he had previously served in leading or critical roles for other organizations, 
particularly what he calls "United Nations-centric" roles with the I Bar Association and the 
United Nations Secretariat. 
We have already addressed the Petitioner's core claims about his work with these organizations in prior 
decisions. Our initial appellate decision addressed the issue extensively, as did the first motion decision. 
Those decisions are no longer before us. The Petitioner hasestablishednoerrorin our June 2020decision 
that would compel us to revisit the issue yet again. 
Significantly, in his Novernber2019rnotion, the Petitioner did not mention the United Nations Secretariat 
or thel Bar Association. Because the November 2019 motion was the only matter before 
us in June 2020, we did not err by failing to reach back further into the record and readjudicate claims 
that we had already addressed in prior motions years before (nor are they ripe for review in any future 
motions). 
Fmiherrnore, the Petitioner's submission of evidence that he could have submitted years ago does not 
establish cause for reopening the proceeding. This, too, was explained in multiple p1ior decisions. Some 
of this evidence concerns a short-term, unpaid student internship at the United Nations Secretariat, which 
the Petitioner undertook in 2006-07. We already concluded in prior decisions that this internship was 
neither leading nor critical with respect to the United Nations. The submission of additional 
documentation from that internship does not alter this conclusion. 
Other evidence concerns the Petitioner's ongoing activities with bar associations at various levels. As 
explained previously, we need not consider the Petitioner's current activities unless the Petitioner has first 
established eligibility at the time he filed the petition in May 2010. 
In his 13th motion, the Petitioner claimed that exemption from ABA reimbursement limits satisfies the 
regulatoryrequirernentat8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix),relatingto "[e]]videncethatthe alien has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." As 
we first observed in our October 2019 decision dismissing the Petitioner's 13th motion, and again in our 
June 2020 decision, the evidence concerns reimbursements that the Petitioner received after the filing 
date, which cannot establish that the Petitioner was eligible at the time of filing as required by 8 C.F.R 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). The Petitioner did not overcome this determination in his 14th motion, and it is no longer 
ripe forreview on the 15th motion or in any hypothetical future motion. In his latest motion, the Petitioner 
takes issue with a footnote in our decision concerning taxation ofreimbursements. This question was not 
central to the outcome of our decision. Further discussion of this side issue will not change the 
fundamental issue that the Petitioner received these reimbursements after the filing date. 
3 
The Petitioner contends that we have discretionary authority to waive the application of the regulations 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(l) and (12), which we have "continuously declin[ed] to exercise." The Petitioner 
has made this claim before, and we rebutted it in our eighth and ninth motion decisions. In raising it yet 
again, the Petitioner cites no statute, regulation, or policy to show that we have that authority. The bare 
assertion that we have such authority does not satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), which 
requires the Petitioner to support its legal arguments. The Petitioner maintains that "the unique 
circumstances of this case" warrants such a discretionary waiver, but the Petitioner does not explain what 
those "unique circumstances" are. Therefore, we will not review the entire record in the aggregate, as the 
Petitioner requests, nor will we revisit issues already decided in the appellate decision or earlier decisions 
on motion. 
Having contended that we should waive the requirement that the Petitioner establish eligibility at the time 
of filing, the Petitioner offers new assertions that he was, in fact, eligible at the time of filing. The 
Petitioner establishes that he qualified for immigration benefits inl I (in 2006) and I 
(in 2008) that, he claims, are functionally equivalent to the immigrant classification he seeks in this 
proceeding. The Petitioner does not explain why he waited until his 15th motion to bring this information 
forward, nor does the newly submitted evidence support his claims that the immigration benefits in 
question are comparable to classification as an alien of extraordinary ability under U.S. law.I I 
"Quality Migrant Admission Scheme" refers to "highly skilled or talented persons." The Petitioner 
submits no information regarding the requirements of I "Landed Permanent Residence 
Scheme." The Petitioner has not established the relevance of this newly submitted evidence, regarding 
facts that the Petitioner did not claim in his initial filing or in any subsequent motion over the last ten 
years. 
In his 14th motion, the Petitioner claimed to have suffered violations of his Constitutional right to due 
process. In our June 2020 decision, we explained that we have "no jurisdiction to consider Constitutional 
claims," and that "the Petitioner has not established that any violation of the regulations resulted in 
prejudice." The Petitioner contends that "constitutionality review is not what the Petitioner asse1ied in 
the prior motion," but that is exactly what his due process claim entailed, and in the present motion he 
refers to "constitutional transgressions" and "constitutional Fifth Amendment substantive due process." 
The Petitioner asserts that our "conduct appeared to be egregious and outrageous and shock the 
contemporary conscience," but rather than explain further, the Petitioner cites a number of court cases 
that did not concern immigration appeals. The Petitioner does not explain how the cited cases relate to 
this proceeding, or how the dismissal of an appeal and subsequent motions is comparable to the 
"conscience-shocking" behavior described in those court cases. As we previously observed, "the 
Supreme Court has 'recognize[ d] that a benefit is not a protected entitlement if government officials may 
grant or deny itin their discretion."' TownofCastleRockv. Gonzales, 545U.S. 748, 756(2005). 
Quoting from various cited cases, the Petitioner uses words such as "brutal," "offensive," and 
"malicious," without explaining how any of those adjectives applies to the denial of an immigration 
benefit. 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner has not established that our prior decision was incorrect 
at the time of that decision. As such, the motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider, and therefore we will dismiss that motion. Furthermore, the newly submitted evidence does 
4 
not establish cause for reopening the proceeding, as it does not demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility at 
the time he filed the petition. Therefore, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. The motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 26, 2024 In Re: 30315970 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an interior design firm, seeks classification for the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary met the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification 
through evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally-recognized award) or by 
meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an interior design firm, and the Beneficiary is its founder and principal designer. He 
is a graduate of the and states that he intends to 
continue to work in his field in the United States through his current role. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three ofthe alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary did not meet any of 
the seven evidentiary criteria under which evidence was submitted. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets the following five of the evidentiary criteria: 1 
(i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor 
(iv) Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field 
(v) Original artistic contributions of major significance in the field 
(viii) Performance in a leading or critical for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation 
(ix) Commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in 
comparison with others in the field 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings regarding the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) or 
(vii), relating to published material about the Beneficiary and the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, 
respectively. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See. e.g.. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
(citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). We will therefore not address these evidentiary criteria 
in our decision. While the Petitioner does not directly address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), it does make 
assertions regarding the Director's treatment of evidence submitted in support of its claim under that criterion. 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that 
the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification. 2 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined in their decision that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence of 
the Beneficiary's' participation as a judge, declining to consider reference letters and what they 
considered to be the assertions of counsel. They also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that 
this criterion does not apply to the Beneficiary's occupation, and thus rejected his claim to this criterion 
based upon comparable evidence. 
For comparable evidence to be considered, a petitioner must first show that a criterion does not readily 
apply to their occupation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
erred in not considering the response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) which was signed 
by the Beneficiary. In that RFE response, the Petitioner asserted that while formal interior design 
competitions exist in which the work ofthose in his field are judged, "many are focused on architecture 
or commercial space interior design, rather than residential interior design, rendering the category of 
judging the work of others in the field not easy to meet for residential interior designers." In support 
ofthis statement, the Petitioner submitted what appear to be pages from an unknown website that form 
part of a list of interior design awards. But in addition to not revealing the source of this information, 
this evidence does not include the complete article or list of such awards, and thus does not present an 
accurate picture of the number of opportunities for interior designers to serve as the judge of the work 
of others in their field. It therefore does not support the Petitioner's assertion that this criterion does 
not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. 3 
We further note that even if we were to conclude that this criterion is not readily applicable to the 
occupation of interior designer, the Petitioner has also not established that the alternative evidence he 
has submitted is comparable to evidence ofjudging the work of others in the Beneficiary's field. The 
Petitioner asserted in his RFE response that the Beneficiary's work as "a key voice of interior design 
and an expert evaluator of ( often-non-individualized) design work and trends" should be considered 
to be comparable, while admitting that this does not involve "direct assessment of an individual peer." 
It relied on a letter from an official of the ________________ which states 
that in his role as an "Insider" for this organization, the Beneficiary visited several industry trade 
shows and "offer[ ed] his expert opinion" of kitchen and bath products and design concepts. While a 
press release announcing the I IInsiders for 2016 (including the Petitioner) states that these 
2 The Petitioner submits an expert opinion letter with its appeal brief. Because the Petitioner was put on notice of the 
deficiencies in the evidence originally submitted and given a reasonable opportunity to respond, we will not consider this 
evidence for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(11) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together 
at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted on 
appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it 
for the record before the denial"). 
3 We take administrative notice that publicly available information provides a lengthy list ofawards for those in the interior 
design profession. https://interiordesign.guide/interior-design-awards/, accessed on April 25, 2024. 
3 
individuals will represent the association at trade shows and "share their perspective with industry 
professionals and consumers," this evidence is insufficient to establish that this type of promotional 
and advocacy activity is comparable to judging the work of others in the interior design field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, through either 
primary or comparable evidence. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, an individual must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
they may show that their contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Beneficiary's "artistic vision is an original contribution 
sought out by prominent institutions in the design industry." It relies primarily upon the reference 
letters submitted by other experts in his field to make this point, but neither the Petitioner nor the 
authors of the letters identify a specific original contribution of the Beneficiary's that has been of 
major significance in the field of interior design. 
For example, a letter from D-S-, President ofl Iapplauds the Beneficiary's residential design 
work, notes his media coverage in media focusing on interior design, and verifies that the school gave 
him its Rising Star Award in 2019. But while noting the Beneficiary's accomplishments, the letter 
does not specify an original contribution made him to the field of interior design that resulted in this 
award. 
Another letter was written by N-H-of the who verifies that the 
Beneficiary was selected in 2014 as one of the interior designers to participate in its annual show 
house. The writer praises his work as part of this show house, and states that being selected "means 
that you have arrived," but does not indicate that this design influenced other designers or that elements 
of the design were implemented elsewhere. While the Beneficiary's work on the show house was 
original and a contribution to this project, this evidence does not establish that it was of major 
significance in the overall interior design field. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-
394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that contributions which were not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer 
do not meet this criterion). 
A third letter, from P-J-of ________ a "network of regional shelter magazines," 
confirms that two ofthe Beneficiary's interior design projects were published in the magazine in 2014 
and 2015. While she notes that these projects were selected to be published in the magazine from 
among hundreds of submissions, and praises the Beneficiary's work, the writer does not suggest that 
the projects constituted contributions that impacted the interior design field overall to the extent that 
they were of major significance. 
4 
Although these letters show that other experts in the field of interior design hold the Beneficiary's 
work in high regard, they do not establish that he has made an original contribution of major 
significance in his field. As such he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To meet the requirements ofthis criterion, an individual must establish through documentary evidence 
that they have commanded a salary or remuneration, and that that salary or remuneration was high or 
significantly high, respectively, in comparison to others in their field. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Beneficiary's tax advisor stating that over the past ten 
years, he has earned from $90,000 -$110,000. It also submitted comparative salary information from 
a variety of sources. This included a report from salary.com which indicated that the average salary 
for an interior designer in New York City in 2023 was $59,727, and that the top 90% of interior 
designers earned $70,748. Similar information from the careerexplorer.com website indicated that 
median salary was $64,200 and that the top 20% of interior designers earned $118,200. Finally, 
evidence showing salary data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) indicates that the annual 
mean wage for interior designers in New York City was $75,190. 
We initially note that because the letter from the tax advisor did not include specific salary information 
for each year, no other information was submitted (such as IRS Forms W-2 or 1099 and federal tax 
returns), and comparative salary information was submitted pertaining only to 2022 and 2023, we 
must assume for purposes of comparison that the Beneficiary's salary was at the bottom of the range 
provided. 
In addition, the wide disparity between the two commercially-sourced sets of data, particularly at the 
higher end of the ranges provided, and the lack of information in the record regarding the sources and 
methods used in compiling this data, makes this evidence unreliable for purposes of comparison. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual, (stating that websites 
employing user-reported data may have too few users or otherwise not be credible.) We will therefore 
consider only the more reliable data from the BLS. That data shows that the bottom of the range of 
the Beneficiary's salary as reported by his tax advisor is higher than the mean salary for interior 
designers in New York. However, the Director concluded in their decision that the mean salary does 
not provide a sufficient basis for comparison to show that the Beneficiary's salary was high in 
comparison to others in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by requiring evidence of the wages of other 
leading designers. However, we note that in Matter ofRacine, 1995 WL 153319 at *1, *4 (N.D. Ill. 
Feb. 16, 1995), the court stated: 
[T]he plain reading of the statute suggests that the appropriate field of comparison is 
not a comparison of Racine's ability with that of all the hockey players at all levels of 
play; but rather, Racine's ability as a professional hockey player within the NHL. This 
interpretation is consistent with at least one other court in this district, Crimson v. INS, 
5 
No. 93 C 3354, (N.D. Ill. September 9, 1993), and the definition of the term 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2), and the discussion set forth in the preamble at 56 Fed. Reg. 60898-99. 
Without reliable information in the record showing high salaries for experienced interior designers in 
New York, we can only conclude that the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary's salary is 
somewhat above average, and thus does not meet the plain language of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although it claims that the Beneficiary is eligible 
for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to lesser awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds because the 
Beneficiary is unable to meet the minimum of three evidentiary criteria. Since the identified basis for 
denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's 
appellate arguments regarding those additional criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 
(1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are 
unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. Prior 0-1 Approvals 
We acknowledge that the Beneficiary is currently in 0-1 B status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability in the arts. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and 
case law. The nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards 
for persons working in the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant 0-1 
category means distinction. 8 C.F.R. § 214.2( o )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary 
ability" reflects that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field. Moreover, 
6 
each petition is separate and independent and must be adjudicated on its own merits, under the 
corresponding statutory and regulatory provisions. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7406398 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an attorney, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a systems analyst, as an alien of 
extraordinary ability.1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
1 The record does not formally designate the Beneficiary as the Petitioner's client, but, as the Petitioner notes, "any person" 
may file a petition to classify a given beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 1 ). 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary is "an ERP [Enterprise Resource Planning] Systems Analyst, 
specializing in Product Life Management (PLM) and Business Intellirnce (BI)." At the time the present 
petition was filed in April 2019, the Beneficiary was employed by l which filed 
approved nonimmigrant petitions on his behalf in July 2013 and July 2016. Subsequently, in May 2019 
and again in January 2020,I !filed nonimmigrant petitions on his behalf The 2019 
petition was approved; the 2020 petition is still pending. 2 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three 
of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that the 
Beneficiary meets four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director found that the Beneficiary met the criteria numbered (iv) and (vi), but not (viii) and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets all four claimed evidentiary criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Beneficiary meets the 
criteria relating to judging and authorship of scholarly articles. However, for the reasons explained 
below, we conclude that the Beneficiary does not meet the criteria pertaining to a leading or critical 
role and high remuneration. 
2 Part 4, line 8 of the petition form asked whether any other immigrant petitions had been filed by the Beneficiary or on 
his behalf. The Petitioner answered "no." The Beneficiary, however, filed a petition on his own behalf in August 201 L 
seeking a lower-p1iority employment-based immigrant classification. The petition was approved shortly afterward. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner initially stated: 
[The Beneficiary] performs in a leading role as a Consultant in SAP PLM and a Business 
Intelligence Analyst for I I His duties include the design and 
configuration of ECM, as well as managing changes in ECO and ECR. He leads critical 
initiative projects and implements and innovates concepts like Big Data and Machine 
Leaming, after conducting research. 
the The Petitioner submitted background information aboutc=J and a client, 
manufacturer o~ I equipment. The materials establish the distingui .... sh_e_d-re_p_u-ta-t-io_n_o_f~..__~ 
butnoto±O 
A letter attributed to the vice president ofc=Jcalls the Beneficiary "a crucial contributor for our success" 
and lists "[a] few highlights of [the Beneficiary's] accomplishments at 0': 
• [The Beneficiary] redesigned and implemented a new solution for the client's Supplier 
collaboration process after identifying the gaps, which saved them $800K in the 
process. 
• He improved sales order processing efficiency by 60% through the effective design 
and received great accolades from customer service representatives. 
• [The Beneficiary] designed and implemented the client's new reporting system which 
improved the performance and operation efficiencies immensely. This project won 
the best innovation award. 
• [The Beneficiary] has received best resource, team player awards and commendations 
fromc=Js clients regarding his work and solution designs. 
The letter describes the Beneficiary's technical proficiencies but does not fully explain their impact on 
the organization. The Petitioner also submits letters attributed to a former support lead atl land the 
chief executive officer of a contracting firm that worked with the Beneficiary a~ I 
There are several reasons to infer common origin, at least in part, of the three letters. All three of these 
letters are unsigned, and printed in the same font on plain paper with no letterhead. There are similarities 
of style and wording as well, such as needless capitalization of some words and references to the 
Beneficiary as "the expert" rather than "an expert." 
Each letter ends with three indented words: 
Address 
Email 
Phone 
3 
No letter includes an actual email address after "Email," or a telephone number after "Phone." Only one 
letter (attributed to the~ official) shows an address on the line marked "Address." The other two 
letters have no contact information at all, making them difficult to verify. Letters attesting to a 
beneficiary's employment experience must include the address of the writer. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l). 
The above evidence of common origin diminishes the credibility of the unsigned letters. See Surinder 
Singh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse credibility determination in 
asylum proceedings based in part on the similarity of the affidavits); see also Mei Chai Ye v. US. 
Dep 't. of Justice, 489 F .3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may 
reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is 
the common source). In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010) 
(quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989). 
The Petitioner submits a 2013 article from a trade publication, indicating that j.__ ___ _.l would be one 
of the first SAP customers taking a brave step forward" by using SAP's "celebrated HANA platform" for 
database management. The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary played a key role in this transition, 
despite not being an employee of SAP orl I The article does not mention the Beneficiary, and the 
only evidence of the Beneficiary's involvement is in the form of the unsigned letters discussed above, 
only one of which mentions the HANA platform. (Another letter indicates that 'I I is a I I partner with SAP.") 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director "fails to consider other evidence that clearly establishes 
that the beneficiary distinguished himself quite clearly and that his distinguished achievements were 
lauded by others in the field." The issue, however, is not whether "the beneficiary distinguished himself" 
The regulation requires evidence that the Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Moreover, the "other evid,nce" in oues~ion is a letter that the Petitioner identifies as Exhibit G(l ), 
attributed to an official of~---~ attesting to the Beneficiary's role "in several new project 
initiatives id~--~t The record, however, contains no Exhibit G(l ). Exhibit G is a copy of the 
Beneficiary's IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for 2017, issued byD The record contains 
no other indication that the Beneficiary worked atl I either directly or as a contractor. Because the 
letter itself is not in the record, and the assertions quoted from that letter are not otherwise consistent with 
the record, we cannot grant any evidentiary weight to quotations purporting to arise from that letter. 3 
At best, the submitted materials indicate that the Beneficiary was involved in a high-profile project for a 
prominent client. The evidence is not sufficiently com~ reliable to support the conclusion that the 
Beneficiary performed in a leading or critical role forl__J or Dor tha0 has a distinguished 
reputation. 
3 The Petitioner submitted lengthy statements with the initial filing of the petition and in response to a request for evidence. 
Neither of those statements include any mention of the letter identified as Exhibit G(l). It appears that the Petitioner may have 
inadvertently refened to conespondence relating to an umelated petition. We note that the Beneficiary has co-authored 
scholarly articles with another individual who shares the Beneficiary's surname, and who is identified as a manager atl I 
4 
The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
D paid the Beneficiary $104,690.96 in 2017. A printout from the online version of the Occupational 
Outlook Handbook, published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), shows that the median annual 
wage for computer systems analysts was $88,740 in 2018. But the same printout shows that "the highest 
[paid] 10 percent earned more than $142,220." A printout from US. News & World Report indicates 
that, in 2017, 25% of computer systems analysts earned salaries higher than $112,540. This information 
indicates that the Beneficiary's salary was above average, but not significantly high in relation to others 
in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted an analysis by Glassdoor for "Computer Systems Analyst Salaries in 
Illinois," where the Beneficiary was employed at the time. The analysis showed "Average Base Pay" of 
$70,198 per year, in a salary range from $59,000 on the low end to $92,000 on the high end. The same 
analysis, however, stated: "The national average salary for a Computer Systems Analyst is $70,197 in 
the United States." Thus, Glassdoor cited the same average figure for Illinois and the United States as a 
whole, and this figure is substantially lower than the national figure from the more authoritative BLS site, 
as well as the US. News site. The Petitioner does not explain why the figures from Glassdoor should 
carry more weight than two other sources that are broadly consistent with one another, but not with 
Glassdoor. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has commanded significantly high remuneration 
in relation to others in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. The 
project cited as the Beneficiary's signature accomplishment took place in 2013, six years before the 
filing of the petition, and this one event would not suffice to establish the sustained acclaim that the 
statute demands. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7406094 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked for several development and construction companies, serving as vice 
president of.__ __________________ __,, since 2000. The Petitioner seeks 
employment as a civil engineering consultant in the United States. 
A. Translations 
Apart from the specific evidentiary requirements for each criterion, the Director took issue with the 
submitted translations of foreign-language documents. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) states: 
"Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English 
translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification 
that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." Rather than submit a 
separate certification for each translation, the translator prepared collective certifications for several 
groups of translated documents. Initially, these collective certifications did not identify the translated 
documents associated with them. In a request for evidence, the Director stated: "the submission of a 
single translation certification that does not specifically identify the document or documents it purportedly 
accompanies does not meet the requirements of the regulation." In response, the Petitioner submitted 
new certifications that identified the translated documents. Nevertheless, the denial decision repeated the 
quoted passage, indicating that the certifications did not identify the translated documents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director imposed "an extraneous demand" not found in the 
regulations, and that the submitted certifications "indicate with specificity the documents they purport to 
translate." In the absence of specific, articulated grounds for rejecting or discounting the translations, we 
find that the submitted certifications comply with the relevant requirements. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that he meets the four criteria claimed previously. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that the Petitioner has met criterion (vi), relating to authorship of scholarly articles in 
the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media. We agree with the Petitioner 
that the articles submitted are scholarly in nature, and appeared in professional publications. The 
record does not support the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner wrote "articles in popular 
magazines." 
We discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner identifies three projects for which, he states, he "received a Luban Award," "the highest 
national honor and award in China's building design and engineering industry." The Petitioner asserts 
that "Luban Award winners attract a great deal of media attention," but does not submit examples or show 
the extent, if any, to which that coverage featured the Petitioner. 
Background information indicates that the Luban Award goes "to the enterprises that have created first­
class projects." The three submitted Luban Award certificates show the names of various construction 
companies. Various notices name the Petitioner as being in charge of various elements of the award­
winning projects, such as "government coordination" and the "Construction Department." These notices 
date from between four and seven years before the dates on the award certificates, and therefore the 
notices do not directly show that the Petitioner retained these responsibilities throughout the life of each 
project. 
The Petitioner states that he "received [the] Tianyou Zhan Award" twice. As with the Luban Award, the 
submitted Tianyou Zhan Award certificates identify the recipients as engineering or construction 
corporations, and documents from several years before the awards identify the Petitioner as the 
engineering director of the projects. 
The Director found that the Luban and Tianyou Zhan Awards do not satisfy the regulatory criterion, 
because the Petitioner did not personally receive the awards. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that 
"the plain language of this criterion does not require that the alien be the named award recipient." 
The language of the criterion requires "[ d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of ... prizes or awards," 
rather than evidence of involvement in award-winning projects or employment with award-winning 
companies. Whether or not his name is on the awards, the Petitioner must have personally received 
the awards. He initially claimed that he personally "received a Luban Award" and "received [the] 
Tianyou Zhan Award," but the record does not support these claims. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts that he deserves much of the credit for the award-winning projects. His authority 
over award-winning projects would have been a matter for consideration in the final merits 
determination, if the proceeding had reached that stage. 
The Petitioner was a named recipient of two prizes relating to his work on a bridge inl I One of 
these awards, the I I Science and Technology Progress Award, is a local award from the I I 
Municipal People's Government. The Petitioner did not establish that this municipal award is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner and his collaborators also won a Second Prize for Science and Technology Progress 
from China's Ministry of Construction. The Petitioner claims to have submitted background 
information about this award under the heading "Exhibit P," but he does not specifically identify the 
materials in question, and no such documentation is evident in the record. Exhibit P consists only of 
information relating to thel !municipal award. The Science and Technology Progress prize is 
from a national entity, but this is not, by itself, evidence of national or international recognition of the 
pnze. 
The Petitioner has not established his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner has served in the following positions: 
• Vice Pre;:::.;si:..::d:..::e.:;;:nc::i.t,=I ===========::;---___,-~I; • Director,_) _______________ ~ 
• Vice Chairman,! I and~-------------~ 
and 
• Vice President 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that his roles were leading or critical, and also did 
not establish that the organizations have distinguished reputations. 
"Reputation" is defined as "overall quality or character as seen or judged by people in general"; 
"recognition by other people of some characteristic or ability"; or "a place in public esteem or regard."1 
These definitions show that a reputation, distinguished or otherwise, derives from outside perception, not 
from self-assessment. Therefore, the Petitioner cannot establish the reputation of an organization based 
only on statements from officials of that organization and self-generated promotional materials. 
Information about an organization's reputation must come, instead, from reliable and identified sources 
outside that organization. (If the sources are not identified, then we cannot account for possible bias or 
error in the descriptions offered.) 
1 https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/reputation (last visited Apr. 16, 2020). 
4 
The Petitioner submitted several pages of information about the four organizations named above, but the 
Petitioner has not identified the sources of that information. The Director, in the denial notice, noted the 
lack of attribution of key documents, a deficiency that the Petitioner does not address or remedy on appeal. 
Instead, the appellate brief contains statements from counsel about the reputations of the four 
organizations. Assertions ofcounsel do not constitute evidence. Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 
534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel 
identifies no sources for the information stated on appeal. 
The insufficiency of the submitted evidence does not rule out the possibility that the organizations have 
distinguished reputations, but the burden is on the Petitioner to establish eligibility. While the Director is 
required to explain the reasons for denying the petition, this obligation does not create a presumption of 
eligibility that the Director must overcome. 
Because the Petitioner has not provided objective documentary evidence from identified sources, he has 
not established that the organizations have distinguished reputations. Therefore, we need not address the 
separate issue of whether he performed in leading or critical roles for those organizations. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion cannot change 
the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve that issue. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. Various 
individuals have provided letters stating that he is at the top of his field, but the record does not 
sufficiently corroborate these assertions to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 14278047 
Appeal of California Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 27, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, ~ L seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the California Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
the decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is ac=J who has performed individually and with multiple ensembles. The Petitioner 
studied atl I Conservatory and the I I Academy, and currently resides in D I !where he is pursuing career opportunities as a performer, composer, and recording artist. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only 
two of the evidentiary criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree with this determination, as the record demonstrates that the Petitioner 
served as a voting member for the Grammy Awards on behalf of the Recording Academy, as well as 
a juror for the ~------------------------~ Orchestra and 
SoundtRec.com, and farther demonstrates that he displayed his work by performing at various artistic 
and musical venues. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets three additional criteria, 
discussed below. 1 We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed that he met the lesser awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the commercial 
success criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). Although the Director addressed the evidentiary deficiencies regarding these 
criteria in the previous decisions, the Petitioner has not pursued these claims on appeal. Accordingly, we will not further 
address these criteria. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 
09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiWs claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). While we would consider this evidence in a final merits 
determination per Kazarian, 596 F .3d I I 15, we have determined that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary 
requirements and will therefore not reach a final merits determination. 
2 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must show that material has been published, 
that the material is about him and his work in the field for which classification is sought, and that it 
was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. In this case, the 
Petitioner provided numerous articles from vanous online publications including 
www.kibrispostasi.com, southcoastoday. com, yemas1r. com. tr, yenisafak. com, hurriyet. com. tr, 
hurriyetdailynews.com, dha.com.tr, sabah.com.tr, and radikal.com.tr, along with print articles from 
publications including Cypress Today and Hurriyet Newspaper/Kelebek (Cumartesi). The Petitioner 
also submitted screenshots and a transcript from youtube.com of a television program it claims aired 
on Turkish Radio and Television (TRT) in 2019. 
The plain language of this regulatory criterion requires that the published material be "about the 
individual." With regard to the article published by South Coast Today, this article is aboutLJ I I and only briefly mentions the Petitioner. Articles that are not about an alien do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
We agree with the Petitioner that the remaining articles published by the above-referenced online 
publications contain sufficient references to and quotes from the Petitioner to qualify 
as published material about him and his work. However, the Petitioner did not establish that these 
publications qualify as major media. The Petitioner provided information about these publications 
from SimilarWeb pertaining to their rankings and viewing statistics. Although he provided evidence 
relating to general Internet traffic estimators, the Petitioner did not show the significance of those 
publications' viewing statistics or explain how such information reflects status as major media.2 For 
example, the Petitioner did not show that the total visits or viewing statistics are high compared to 
other websites in the field. Although the size of each publication's online audience is noted, the 
Petitioner did not provide comparative circulation statistics or rankings to indicate that any of these 
publications has a widespread viewership or traffic rate on a national or international level. 
With respect to the articles from Cyprus Today and Hurriyet Newspaper/Kelebek (Cumartesi), which 
were published in their print editions, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish 
that they qualify as major trade publications, professional publications or other major 
media. 3 Regarding the Cyprus Today article, the Petitioner relies on an excerpt from the website 
www.pressreference.com, which provides general information and basic data about the Republic of 
Cyprus. According to the document, the Republic of Cyprus has eight daily newspapers; however, 
Cyprus Today is not listed as one of these press or news agencies. Although the Petitioner highlights 
a statistic that states total circulation is 46,000, it appears that this statistic reflects the collective 
circulation of the Republic's eight daily newspapers, and not that of Cyprus Today. In fact, this 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 See id. 
3 
document makes no specific reference to Cyprus Today or its circulation, such that we can determine 
the publication's status as major media. 
With regard to the article featured in Hurriyet N ewspaper/Kelebek ( Cwnartesi), the Petitioner submits 
a document entitled "Medya Radar," which appears to be a weekly circulation report for a period 
defined as "March 16 to March 22" for 14 newspapers, including Hurriyet. No year is provided, and 
the source of this document is not identified. Although the document indicates Hurriyet ranks 3rd on 
the list, it did not show the significance of these rankings and circulation statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as ma·or media. On a eal the Petitioner rovided a co of a document 
entitled '-----~----------,------------------------'' a Reuters 
Institute Fellowship Paper published in 2016. Although the Petitioner asserts that this document 
provides relevant information regarding Hurriyet 's status as major media, this paper focuses mainly 
on advertising trends. While we acknowledge that the report includes a reproduced chart attributed to 
the Nielsen Company which demonstrates Turkish newspaper circulation numbers and "total space 
distribution" for the period from 2011-2015, this chart alone does not show the significance of these 
numbers or explain how such information reflects status as major media. Moreover, the Hurriyet 
article discussed here was written in 2011, thereby rendering statistical data for future circulation 
period irrelevant. 
The Petitioner also submits screenshots and a transcript of a television interview he claims aired on 
TRT in 2019. The screenshots submitted, however, demonstrate that the video was streamed on 
youtube.com, via what appears to be TRT' s Y ouTube channel. The Petitioner, however, did not show 
that either TRT, or TRT's YouTube channel, constitutes major media. As evidence, the Petitioner 
provided an excerpt from TRT World's website, which states that it is the "national public broadcaster 
of Turkey." However, the Petitioner did not submit independent, probative evidence to support the 
broadcaster's claims. Absent additional evidence, this information from the broadcaster's own 
website is insufficient to demonstrate that it is a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 
(9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover 
of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). Furthermore, it is unclear whether the 
interview was broadcast on TRT as a television show, or solely on TRT's YouTube channel. 
Regardless, the record is insufficient to establish that either TRT, or TRT's YouTube channel, 
constitute major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that our treatment of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion 
is inconsistent, as his receipt of 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants 
of extraordinary ability, was based on the same set of documentary evidence currently before us. The 
Petitioner contends that as a result of these prior approvals, this criterion has previously been 
established. Extraordinary ability in the nonimmigrant context, however, means distinction, which is 
not the same as sustained national or international acclaim. Section 101 (a)( 46) of the Act explicitly 
modifies the criteria for the 0-1 extraordinary ability classification in such a way that makes the 
nonimmigrant 0-1 criteria less restrictive for an individual in the arts, and thus less restrictive than the 
criteria for immigrant classification pursuant to section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Therefore, while 
USCIS has previously approved 0-1 nonimmigrant petitions for the Petitioner, the prior approvals do 
not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
4 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law.4 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the alien 
has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation [ emphasis added]." In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself: 
and a critical role is one in which the petitioner was responsible for the success or standing of the 
organization or establishment. 
A review of the record of proceedings reflects that the Petitioner claimed eli ibilit for this criterion 
based on his various erformances with or anizations such as the Philharmonic 
Orches .................... ......__--,. ___ ___J Opera, th ..._ _______________ ~Philharmonic, 
and the.__ ___ __, Orchestra. While the Petitioner submitted testimonial letters from directors and 
producers of these organizations confirming his participation in various performances, they do not 
reflect that he performed in a leading or critical role. For example, the letters submitted claim that he 
performed as I I However, the Petitioner provided no information regarding the number 
otj I or the total number of musicians, that participated in each performance, such that we can 
ascertain his rank and position within each symphony or orchestra. In denying the petition the 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish his role was leading or critical to theD 
section, let alone to the orchestras or symphonies as a whole, noting that "in an orchestra the leading 
musical role is generally held by the Concertmaster or first violin." 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's determination, and notes that despite having 
multiple musicians on stage, "a solo performance within the entire concert may bring about the entire 
success solely attributed to a particular musician." The Petitioner asserts that his solo performances 
have attributed to the high degree of success of various concerts in which he performed. Again, 
however, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to corroborate these claims, as the record contains 
no evidence that differentiates his role from the other I I or other routine performers in 
subordinate roles within the given symphonies, orchestras, and ensemble performances. Absent 
documentation showing otherwise, we are not persuaded that the Petitioner, or every performer in a 
concert setting for that matter, performs in a leading or critical role. 
The Petitioner also maintains that he satisfies this criterion based on his creation of an original score 
to accompany a three-minute promotional video for the University! I I ]Institute. According to a letter from~ I 1e Petitioner "has been 
overwhelmingly critical to the continued success of th .__ ______ ____,_ Institute and has played 
4 The Petitioner also claims that the same evidence was deemed acceptable to satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) in a prior immigrant petition for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability, which was ultimately 
withdrawn prior to adjudication. While the Petitioner's assertion is noted, it must be noted that in making a determination 
of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in that individual record of proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(16)(ii). 
5 
a leading a critical role in upholding the reputation of an elite institution likel The Petitioner 
submitted a screenshot of the promotional video, crediting the Petitioner with providing the music for 
this video. Although the Petitioner claims his work on this video demonstrates he performed in a 
leading and critical role, there is insufficient evidence to corroborate this claim. For example, the 
letter froml I indicates that the Petitioner "worked well" with the Institute's IT team in 
helping to create the video. Absent evidence pertaining to the organizational hierarchy of this team 
and the Petitioner's position therein, we cannot determine that his role was leading or critical as 
contemplated by this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, the submitted letter does not describe in 
sufficient detail the extent of the Petitioner's role in creating this video, or how his role has been 
critical to the Institute's reputation. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner relies heavily on the testimonial letters submitted on his behalf: 
noting that they constitute "expert statements" from "world-renowned musicians." While the 
statements in these letters are noted, they are not accompanied by corroborating documentary that 
distinguishes the Petitioner's role from his fellow lor musical performers. We are not persuaded 
by vague, solicited letters that simply repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how the 
Petitioner's roles were leading or critical. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations 
does not satisfy the Petitioner's burden of proof See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 
1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), c~ff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 
WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). The lack of supporting evidence gives us no basis to gauge the 
significance of the roles performed by the Petitioner. 
As the Petitioner is d lit is expected that he will perform the routine duties of~ I to perform 
on stage or in front of an audience. However, merely performing, even if the performance is 
considered noteworthy, does not equate to a leading or critical role. Although the testimonial letters 
generally praise his skilled performances and attribute large crowd attendance and sold out shows to 
his rork. there is no evidence demonstrating how the Petitioner's roles differentiated him from the 
otheii. I or other musicians in general. Without evidence establishing that the Petitioner 
performed in a leading or critical role, it is insufficient to simply submit documentary evidence 
reflecting that he performed as a flutist in a concert setting. 
We further note that even if the Petitioner were to submit supporting documenta evidence showing 
that his roles with the Orchestra, F"-----1-- __ _J Opera, the 
.__ ________________ __, Philharmonic, and the'-----~ Orchestra meet the 
elements of this criterion, which he has not, the record does not demonstrate that these organizations 
have distinguished reputations. The Petitioner submitted excerpts from the organizations' websites, 
such as the "About Us" page for the.__ _______ _. Orchestra, and claims that these documents 
establish the organizations' distinguished reputations. As noted previously in this decision, we need 
not rely on self-promotional material. Cf Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, ~ff d 317 Fed. Appx. 
680 (C.A.9) (concluding that the AAO did not have to rely on self-serving assertions on the cover of 
a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media). The unsupported assertions of the Petitioner 
and the self-promotional material from the organizations' websites is not sufficient to demonstrate that 
the organizations have a distinguished reputation. 
Again, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires "[e]vidence that the 
alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
6 
distinguished reputation." The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that he meets every element of 
this criterion. The Petitioner did not establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation consistent with the plain language 
of this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. Here , the Petitioner 
did not establish the total amount of salary or remuneration he has earned. The Petitioner submitted 
various contracts for his services, primarily for one-time performances where he would earn varying 
amounts of flat-rate compensation ranging from $350 to $3,000. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
copies of three 1099 forms from 2018, demonstrating that he earned a total of $7,400 for his services 
that year. He also provided evidence in the form of PayPal and Zelle transaction receipts, 
demonstrating total earnings in the amount of $870 pursuant to contractual agreements for one-time 
performances in 2019. 
The Petitioner did not submit sufficient comparative evidence demonstrating that the contracted 
amounts per engagement is significantly higher than the remuneration of otherl I Rather, he 
provides evidence from the U.S. Department of Labor's Office of Foreign Labor Certification, 
demonstrating that the mean salary for a musician in the Petitioner's geographical area from July 2019 
to June 2020 was $39.01 per hour, or $81,141 annually. Although the Petitioner relies on this 
document as evidence that his hourly rate exceeds the mean hourly rate for musicians, he offers no 
basis for comparison showing that his compensation was significantly high "in relation to others in 
the field," which in this case isl 15 While the Petitioner has provided documentation of hourly 
and annual compensation for the field, the record lacks evidence of his own hours worked or his total 
annual compensation. Without a proper basis for comparison and evidence showing his 
comprehensive earnings during a sustained period predating the filing of the petition ( such as an 
income tax return), we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
As noted briefly above, we note that USCIS has approved several 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petitions 
filed on behalf of the Petitioner. However, the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
5 The musicians occupational category on the submitted wage report includes both musicians and singers. 
7 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), he does not meet any additional criteria on 
appeal. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 6 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner's work as al I has brought praise for his experience and technical skill, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6501485 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chef, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and subsequently affirmed his 
decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates current employment as a chef forl I Hospital in~I --~ 
California. Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets seven criteria. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner indicates that he initially met this criterion based on an "A ward for Excellence" from 
Restaurant, a "Certificate of A ward" froml l a "Certificate of 
Participation" from~-------~ and a "Certificate of Appreciation" from I I I I Restaurant. On appeal, the Petitioner also claims eligibility based on a "Certificate of 
Appreciation" from I !Restaurant and a "Certificate of Participation" from I I 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
As it relates to his initial claims, although the Petitioner provided certificates, he did not submit 
supporting evidence demonstrating their national or international recognition for excellence in the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
field. Here, the petitioner did not establish the significance of the certificates in the overall field 
beyond the restaurants and establishments that issued them. 
Similarly, regarding his "Certificate of Appreciation" froml I Restaurant, he provides screenshots 
from r::::::lrestaurant.com promoting itself However, none of the screenshots mention the 
"Certificate of Appreciation," nor do they demonstrate that the restaurant's certificate is nationally or 
internationally recognized as a prize or award for excellence in the field. Moreover, although the 
Petitioner submits his own statement asserting to eligibility and criteria, he did not present 
independent, objective evidence to corroborate his claims. Further, while the Petitioner asserts that 
the "Excellence A ward winners are brands that meet high benchmark standards within their respective 
product categories," the record does not reflect he received an "Excellence Award" rather than a 
"Certificate of Appreciation." Regardless, the Petitioner did not show that either the "Certificate of 
Adpreciayon" or "Excellence Award" is nationally or internationally for excellence in the field outside 
o Restaurant. 
In addition, as it pertains to the "Certificate of Participation" from.__ _______ ___. the record 
reflects that the Petitioner received the certificate in December 2019, approximately a year after he 
filed his petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this certificate qualifies for 
eligibility at initial filing of the petition. Nonetheless, while the Petitioner submits screenshots from 
Wikipedia regarding! I they make no mention of the "Certificate of 
Participation," nor do they show that the participation certificate is nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field, he did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he "submitted several documentary evidences that indicates [sic] his 
membership and involvement in the numerous organization/associations [sic]." Moreover, the 
Petitioner claims that "[t]he Director erred in stating that there is no evidence that show [sic] that 
association requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in the field." However, the Petitioner does not indicate the documentation, nor 
does he specifically identify how the Director erroneously interpreted law or statement of fact. Instead, 
the Petitioner makes a broad, unsupported assertion. 
froml I in the Philippines; a letter fro restaurant administrator, who Notwithstanding the above, the record reflects th~ the Petition~ snbmird a "Certificate ofTraiillllg" 
verified the Petitioner's employment witH l l andl l 
and a recommendation letter from.__ ______ ~ In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
3 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought. 3 Here, the evidence relates to the Petitioner's employment with various restaurants rather than 
memberships with associations. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that outstanding 
achievements are an essential condition for membership, nor did he provide supporting 
documentation, such as the bylaws or other membership requirements. Furthermore, the Petitioner 
did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding achievements 
for membership. 4 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion for the first time on appeal. He submits an article 
from the University of Urdaneta City Journal and a letter froitj I author of the article. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 5 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not include the date of the article. The inclusion of the title, date, and 
author of the material is not opt~ma) hut r regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Furthermore, althougl indicated that the University of Urdaneta City 
Journal is a publication of the university, she did not provide information regarding the status of the 
journal. Moreover, the Petitioner did not present documentation establishing the professional or major 
trade or major medium standing of the publication. 6 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that his recognition certificates and recommendation letters reflect his 
eligibility for this criterion. In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner 
must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6-7. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
significance in the field. 7 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided a "Certificate of Recognition" froml I 
Restaurant for "serving scrumptious foods and rendering exemplary; Culinary Services to I I L" In addition, he submitted a "Certificate of Recognition" from .... l ______ ~--==------'· I lfor "giving his excellent performance and in sharing his invaluable insights and expertise in 
Culinary Industry in the conduct of National Nutrition Month." On appeal, he presents a "Certificate 
of Recognition" from I ~ for "his exemplary performance as Resource Speaker on 
'Quantitative & Qualitative [R ]esearch in Case Restaurant,"' and a "Certificate of Attendance" for 
~----------' Association for his "active participation in celebrating International Chefs 
Day." Although the certificates show that the entities recognized his service, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how he made original contributions of major significance in the overall field. 8 While the 
establishments acknowledged the Petitioner's participation, he did not establish how his involvement 
constituted contributions in the field in a significant, major manner. 
Furthermore, the record contains recommendation letters praising the Petitioner for his talents and 
abilities. For instance, the Petitioner's "excellent skills and strategies and excellent menu are still 
being followed today [ atl ~" '---------~' and the Petitioner "is a wonderful 
chef providing us with meals that are delicious and creative, along with being healthy" l I LJ_ 9 However, the letters do not establish how the Petitioner's skills, strategies, and menus are 
viewed by the field as original contributions of major significance in the field. The letters, for instance, 
do not explain how the Petitioner has significantly impacted the field in a major way consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. Moreover, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution 
of major significance in-and-of-itself Further, the record must be supported by evidence that the 
Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to influence the field at a significant level, which 
he has not shown. In addition, the letters do not demonstrate how the Petitioner's talents and skills 
have been a major influence in the overall field beyond the restaurants in which he worked or the 
people he encountered. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his culinary work has had on the overall field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 10 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
9 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submits a letter froml I claiming that he earned 1,600 Euros per month 
in 2007 atl I Restaurant in Spain, and the Petitioner earned 1,800 Euros per month in 2007 at the 
same restaurant.12 In addition, he offers a screenshot from averagesalarysurvey.com reflecting that 
the average gross yearly salary in Spain for a cook in 2019 is 24,950 Euros. In order to meet this 
criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative to the 
compensation paid to others working in the field.13 
Although he submitted a letter froml I "to the best of [his] recollection," the Petitioner did 
not provide any supporting data regardinr his earnings, such as paystubs, income tax returns, or other 
income documentation. Moreover, while I refers to 2007 earnings, the Petitioner provides 
2019 wage data. Regardless, based on the Petitioner's comparative information, his earnings were 
lower than the average wages of cooks in Spain. Furthermore, the comparison of average wages does 
not demonstrate that the Petitioner commanded a high salary in relation to other chefs. The Petitioner, 
for example, did not compare his salary to the high wages of chefs. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. o_f Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) 
(finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the 
field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary 
versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing 
salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, memberships, published 
material, original contributions, and high salary. Although he claims eligibility for two additional 
criteria, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
11 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
12 In his previous motion before the Director, the Petitioner submitted paystubs reflecting earnings after he filed his petition. 
However, eligibility must be established at the time of the filing of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). 
13 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
6 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.14 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has cooked in various restaurants, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
14 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6511837 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mastering engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Tr Petitioner indicates employment as a mastering engineer at 
in I California. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets five criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he "received a certification at the0 Grammy Awards," and "any award 
from the Grammy Awards should speak for itself." In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a certificate from the National Academ of Recording 
Arts and Sciences "in recognition of [his] participation as on the 
GRAMMY® Award-nominated recording! I in the category~----~ 0 Music Album." The Petitioner, however, did not provide any further documentation 
demonstrating that a certificate acknowledging his participation on a Grammy nominated recording is 
tantamount to a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the 
field consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that he 
received a Grammy rather than participating on a nominated recording. Here, the Petitioner did not 
show that he garnered a prize or award from the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 2 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a book entitled,! I 
I I in which the author interviewed the Petitioner covering approximately six pages. 
However, the Petitioner did not include the required date of the material. Furthermore, the Petitioner 
provided an article from highwiredaze.com dated after the filing of the initial petition. The Petitioner 
must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Similarlf', he offered 
a screenshot from rocknrollindustries.com, highlighting "Rock N Roll Industries I "with a date 
occurring after the initial filing of his petition. Furthermore, he did not include the accompanying 
article establishing published material about him. 3 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner provided articles posted on prosoundnetwork.com and 
musicconnection.com showing published material about him relating to his work. 4 However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the websites qualify as professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. 5 As it relates to prosoundnetwork.com, the Petitioner submitted documentation 
regarding "Future pk," claiming that "Pro Sound News is a subsidiary of Future plc, an international 
media group and leading digital publisher." The evidence, though, makes no mention of 
prosoundnetwork.com. In addition, the issue here is not the reputation of the publisher but whether 
the website gamers major medium status. 6 
Moreover, regarding musiconnection.com, the Petitioner submitted a letter from ~I----~ ~---~I for Music Connection, who claimed that "Music Connection, via its monthly print 
publication, daily website, podcast and Weekly Bulletin, is a well-known information resource for 
recording artists, songwriters, producers and engineers whose expertise is in the creation of great 
music." However, the Petitioner did not submit independent, probative evidence to support the 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 In his cover letter in response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner claimed that "Rock N Roll Industries 
Magazine has an interview with [him] called I I' 
4 The Petitioner did not include the authors for two of the four articles from prosoundnetwork.com. 
5 Although the Petitioner claimed published material in ProsoundNews and Music Connection, as well as High Wire Daze 
and Rock N Roll Industries Magazine, the Petitioner submitted screenshots showing posted articles on their websites rather 
than printed articles in their magazines. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
publisher's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga 
v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) 
(concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not 
reliant evidence of a major medium). Here, the Petitioner did not offer objective evidence, such as 
website traffic figures, demonstrating the website's standing as a major medium. 7 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires his "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media."8 The Petitioner claims eligibility 
for this criterion because his "professional writing in his field has been featured in three books on 
mastering and audio engineering." The record reflects that he submitted: 1) a page from the book, 
~-------.---------r---------r----.............,authored by I l 2) a 
page from the book, authored b and 3) a screenshot from an 
unidentified website a~d--:-v-ert----:-is-in_g_t--:-h-e--:-b-o-o--:-k-, r'-----........__,..___-,-a_u_t.,....ho.......,red byl I. 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how books authored by other individuals qualify as 
"the alien's authorship of scholarly articles." Regardless, for fields other than in the academic arena, 
a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field.9 Moreover, "learned," is defined 
as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship," and learned persons include all 
persons having profound knowledge of a field.10 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the 
materials represent scholarly articles. 
As it relates to __________________________ __, the book cover 
indicates that it gives "advice from over 100 industry professionals." Regarding the Petitioner's 
contribution, the Petitioner provided his thoughts and advice on 1 t' Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how offering his advice demonstrates that he wrote the page for learned 
persons in the field who have profound knowledge or scholarship. 
Regarding J I the Petitioner provided a three-sentence quote regarding the author's 
topic on 1 I." Here, the Petitioner did not establish that he authored the material; 
rather the book's author supported the section by quoting the Petitioner. Again, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the material was written for learned persons. Instead, the Petitioner presented 
documentation advertising the manual "for consideration for course adoption," signifying that it is 
intended for students or individuals with lesser knowledge or scholarship than seasoned or experienced 
individuals. 
7 In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that The Business of Audio Engineering, highwiredaze.com, and 
rocknrollindustries.com qualify as professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
io Id. 
4 
As it pertains to.........,~------ the Petitioner did not establish what he contributed to the book. 
He did not, for example, provide any pages, sections, or chapters reflecting his written work. As such, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he authored a scholarly article. Furthermore, the unidentified 
screenshot indicated that "[s]ome of the professionals that appear, exclusively, exposing their 
respective visions and experiences in the professional audio sector."11 Once again, the Petitioner did 
not show whether he authored the material or that the author quoted him. Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not establish that the material was written for learned persons. 
Finally, while he submitted evidence regarding the publishers of the books, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that any of books are professional or major trade publications or other major media. The 
Petitioner, for instance, did not provide statistics or other evidence establishing the major standing of 
the books. 12 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, published material, and 
scholarly articles. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to 
leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and commercial successes at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(3)(3)(x), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial 
evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 13 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
11 The Petitioner's name is listed as one of the professionals included in the book. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9 (providing that evidence of professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics and the intended audience). 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has worked with accomplished musicians, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6619013 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a senior fellow, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a senior fellow at the University of~--~----~ 
I I Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that the Director "failed to take into account the totality of the evidence and 
... noted the importance of [his] work." Specifically, he references two of his scholarly articles, four 
recommendation letters, and an article that cited to his work. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
As it relates to his scholarly articles published in the European Journal of Immunology and Mucosa! 
Immunology, the Petitioner argues that his "revolutionary scientific findings represent a significant 
contribution to immunology because for the first time in human history,! I 
~--~!inducing effective immunity against [Mycoacterium] tuberculosis was meticulously proven 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
and documented." While the publication of his articles shows the originality of his research, it does 
not necessarily demonstrate that his findings have been of major significance in the field. Moreover, 
publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
they were of"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd 
in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted citatory evidence from Google Scholar 
reflecting that his two articles received 19 and 12 citations, respectively. Again, this criterion requires 
the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to not only identify his original contributions but to also explain 
why they are of major significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the 
field has taken interest in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not 
sufficiently shown that his citations for these published articles are commensurate with contributions 
of major significance. 2 Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the 
citations to his articles. For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in 
his field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. 3 
Although his citations indicate his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that his citation numbers to these articles represent majorly significant 
contributions in the field. 4 
Further, as indicated by the Petitioner, he submitted an article authored by.__ _____ ___.and I I who cited to his European Journal of Immunology article. Although the authors 
credit the Petitioner's article for "show[ing] that mice lacking the I O lin myeloid cells 
have augmented M. tuberculosis growth and increased inflammation in the lungs," the Petitioner did 
not establish how a single article that cites to his work demonstrates that his research rises to a level 
of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. While the authors build upon the 
Petitioner's work in their own research, he did not show the significance of his research in the overall 
field beyond the authors who cited to his work in a single article. 5 
Likewise, although not argued on appeal, the record contains an article authored by I 
.......... -,.....,....------,,..,.....,..~~n~ I who cited to his Mucosal Immunology article . ._A_g_a_i_n_, -th_e_. 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of this sample article that cited to his work. Moreover, 
the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the other 169 cited 
papers. In the case here, the Petitioner did not establish, through citations, that his Mucosal 
Immunology article is viewed by the greater field as a contribution of major significance. 
2 The Petitioner also did not demonstrate that any of his other scholarly articles resulted in original contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
3 The record also reflects that the Petitioner submitted documentation from Google Scholar regarding the citation of articles 
from I I and .__ ______ ___, whose individual aiticles garnered citations in the hundreds and 
thousands. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (paiticularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 
Finally, in regards to the Petitioner's four recommendation letters, they recount his research and 
findings and indicate their publications in journals. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they 
do not sufficiently articulate how his research and findings have impacted the field in a significant 
manner. For instance,! I stated that "[t]he genetic study found a significant 
association ofl lwith pulmonary TB in the population studied .... 
[the Petitioner] published the results of this study in Disease Markers," the Petitioner "showed that a 
soluble factor, .__ _______________ _,, is responsible for this inhibition of M. 
tuberculosis growth in human macrophages and in mice .... [the Petitioner] published the results of 
these studies in the highly prestigious scientific journal PLOS Pathogens," and "[the Petitioner] found 
th8tl I by myeloid cells contributes to the protective immune response against M. 
tuberculosis .... [the Petitioner] first authored work, which in 2016 was published in the European 
Journal oflmmunology, a prestigious journal in the field oflmmunology." Here, I I did not 
further elaborate and explain how such findings significantly impacted or influenced the field rather 
than referencing the publication of the Petitioner's research in journals. Again, publication alone is 
not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 
596 F.3d at 1115. 
Furthermore, the letters speculate on the possibility of having an impact at some point in the future, 
such as "[t]his finding can lead to strategies in development of new.__ ________ __, strains 
that can stimulate memory [Natural Killer] cells more effectively in humans," "[t]his study can pave 
way to facilitate development of more effective vaccines and dru therapy," and "the potential his 
findings will have on alleviating health conditions" Moreover, the Petitioner's 
"novel research in this area suggests tha.__ _____ __, 1s essentia or the optimal control ofM.tb 
infection," "[t]his information will facilitate development of improved vaccines and 
immunotherapeutic strategies to prevent and treat TB, respectively," and"[ u ]tilizing a scientist of [the 
Petitioner's] outstanding skill level is a boon for the national interest of the United States due to his 
ability to meticulously devise new approaches that are promising steps toward improving our 
understanding of immunology" I ~-In addition, "[t]he delineation of the 
mechanisms by which I !optimizes immune responses against M.tb may facilitate the 
development of vaccines against this organism and other intracellular pathogens," and his "research 
will eventually find important beneficial clinical application" .__ ______ __. While the 
Petitioner's research may show promise, he did not establish how his work already qualifies as a 
contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. Here, the 
significant nature of his work has yet to be determined. 
As discussed above, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
unusual influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
for meeting this criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6620180 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a medical center, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as a sports medicine physician since 2014. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met only one of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), discussed farther below. On appeal, 
the Petitioner demonstrates that the Beneficiary participated as a judge of the work of others and 
performed in a critical role for it, thereby fulfilling 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii). 
Because the Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, 2 that 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
2 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary receiv,.......~~'t"chelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery 
(MBBS) from I I Universit in India in 2001. 4 In addition, he completed a 
residency in family medicine with.__ __________ ~ _ ____, inl !Ohio in 2011. 
Further, he participated in a fellowship in geriatrics at in 2012 and a fellowship in primary 
care sports medicine at State University ofl I in.....,..._~' New York in 2013. Moreover, as 
indicated above, the Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as a sports medicine physician since 
2014. As mentioned above, the Beneficiary judged others, authored scholarly articles, and performed 
in a critical role. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his personal and professional 
achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 5 The Petitioner 
submits evidence reflecting that the Beneficiary judged nine speakers for its continuing medical 
education (CME) committee from 2016 -2018.6 However, the Petitioner did not establish that these 
instances place the Beneficiary among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
The Petitioner did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's experience in reviewing speakers for 
its own committee, as well as recommending graduate medical students, compares to others at the very 
top of the field. 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expe1iise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner provided evidence showing that the Beneficiary's MBBS is equivalent to a doctor of medicine degree in 
the United States. Fmthennore, the Beneficiary satisfied the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates. 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 The Petitioner also provided a 2010 letter from.___~------'' residency program director atl I who 
generally claimed that the Beneficiary was "also a member ofour observership evaluation committee which screens foreign 
medical graduates applying for observership postings within our~nt." In addition, the Petitioner presented a letter 
froml I graduate medical education official atl______jwho broadly asse1ied that the Beneficiary "was 
able to make recommendations for choosing excellent candidates." 
3 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's recent judging instances 
contribute to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from 
the field rather than limited to the Petitioner's own committee. Moreover, serving on a committee 
reviewing speakers does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability 
and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets 
the Beneficiary apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of 
reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, serving in editorial positions for 
distinguished journals or publications, or chairing technical committees for reputable conferences, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's judging experience places him among that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Further, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 7 The record 
reflects that the Beneficiary authored an article in 2013 and 2016. However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how the Beneficiary's limited publication record is consistent with having a career of 
acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. The Petitioner did not submit 
evidence showing the significance of the Beneficiary's authorships or how his publications compare 
to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's authorships reflect 
being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Beneficiary's written work can 
be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that 
others have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided 11 articles that 
cited to the Beneficiary's written work. While the citation of the Beneficiary's work shows that some 
in his field have noticed it, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to 
demonstrate a level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international 
acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citation 
numbers represent attention at a level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very 
top of the Beneficiary's field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that recount the Petitioner's research and 
findings and indicate their publications in two journals without demonstratin how they have 
influenced the field in a significant manner. For instance, stated that the 
Beneficiary's "research contributes to promotion of expedited healing." However, .__ ___ __,did not 
further elaborate and explain how the Petitioner's research or article contributed to promoting healing. 
7 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
Moreover, the letters speculate on the potential influence and on the possibility of being majorly 
significant at some point in the future. For example,.__ ________ __. claimed that the 
Beneficiary's article "will impact my practice in a positive way and improve my quality of care," and 
'-----~------' asserted that the "information summarized in this article will lay future 
foundation of progressive research in concussion evaluation and management." Here, the significant 
impact of the Beneficiary's work on the field has yet to be determined. Furthermore, the letters do not 
show that the Beneficiary is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary has made impactful or influential contributions 
through his written work in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, 
garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting that the Beneficiary presented his work at various 
conferences, such as the Family Medicine Education Consortium Northeast Region Meeting and 
American Medical Society for Sports Medicine. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
Beneficiary's presentations are consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining 
national or international acclaim. For instance, the Petitioner did not show the significance of the 
Beneficiary's presentations, how his overall presentations compare to others who are viewed to be at 
the very top of the field, or whether he received notoriety or wide attention based on his presentations. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary's presentations reflect being among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to the Beneficiary's roles, as mentioned above, the Petitioner employs him as a sports 
medicine physician. In addition, the Beneficiary serves as its founder and director of the I I 
clinic. Further, as indicated earlier, the Beneficiary co-chairs the Petitioner's CME committee. 
Although the Petitioner documented the Beneficiary's roles, it did not demonstrate that he garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field be ond his em loyer. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. For example,__~------'I president and chief executive officer 
for the Petitioner, discussed the importance of the .__ ___ ___. clinic to the area and indicated that it 
"is an integral part of the [Petitioner] and the creation of the clinic has driven the success of the 
institution as a whole," and "[i]t has helped to fill the gaps in the specialized medical service needs in 
the community." Here,.__ ___ ___.commented on the Beneficiary's limited, local impact to the 
Petitioner and surrounding community without showing how he or his work has been recognized on a 
national or international scale. 
Likewise, although the Petitioner provided two reference letters frorril I indicating that the 
Beneficiary served as the education chief for the center and member of the observer selection 
committee, it did not establish that his roles or accomplishments garnered any acclaim from the field, 
including a level of attention consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of the 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's 
professional career spanning over ten years represents a career of acclaimed work and sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
While the Beneficiary's letters praised his professional experience and accomplishments, they did not 
show how his roles resulted in acclaim beyond his employers, such as significant attention from the 
5 
greater field or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the very top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6349607 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a managed pressure drilling engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he has worked for.__ ______ ----.---,, in vario}1s capacities since 
2002, including his current employment as a drilling engineering team leader with L I 
'-----------' located inl ITexas. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The record reflects that the Petitioner 
commands a high salary from his employment with BP. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the high salary criterion. 
Further, we find that the Petitioner participated in judging abstracts for a conference, satisfying the 
judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner 
authored two scholarly articles published in professional publications, meeting the scholarly articles 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies three criteria, 
we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received his bachelor's degree in electrical power and machines 
engineering froml I University in 2001. In addition, he obtained a postgraduate diploma in 
petroleum engineering froml !university in 2015. Moreover, as indicated above, the 
Petitioner has been employed b~ in several capacities beginning in 2002. Specifically, he served 
in Egypt as a drilling engineer, night wellsite leader, senior drilling engineer, functional performance 
manager, and engineering team leader. Since 2014,Oemployed him as an engineering team leader 
and drilling engineering team leader in its I I located inl I Texas. As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner judged abstracts for a conference, authored two scholarly articles, and commands a high 
salary. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated in ranking abstracts in 2017 for a conference. 5 However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that this single instance places him among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his limited abstract 
or paper selection experience compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this one judging event, occurring approximately 
one year from filing his petition, contributes to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the 
field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 
and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that he garnered 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expe1iise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence listing him as a participant at a paper selection meeting for an upcoming 
conference in 2019; however, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he actually participated in judging the abstracts or 
papers. 
3 
wide attention from the field based on his work ranking abstracts for a conference. Moreover, serving 
on a conference abstract committee or in the peer review process does not automatically demonstrate 
that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very 
top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he 
has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review requests relative to others, served 
in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or chaired technical committees for 
reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that his peer review experience places him among 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 6 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner authored two papers in 2012. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that his publication record of two papers over seven years ago is consistent with having a career of 
acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more 
extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 
(July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that his authorships reflect being among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did 
not show the significance of his authorship of two articles or how his publications compare to others 
who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other managed 
pressure drilling engineers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
The Petitioner provided evidence indicating that his onepetro.org article has been downloaded 
hundreds of times. While the downloads may show that his article was at least read or reviewed, he 
did not establish the importance or relevance of the figures. Specifically, he did not demonstrate that 
such download numbers sufficiently demonstrate a level of interest in the field commensurate with 
sustained national or international acclaim or represent attention at a level consistent with being among 
small percentage at the very top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his drillingcontractor.org article garnered him any 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. He did not submit citatory 
documentation or other evidence consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to 
present more extensive documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
at 30704. Further, the Petitioner did not show that the field has been influenced by his article or that 
it has somehow impacted the field in a significant manner. 
Moreover, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he commands a high salary fromD 
Although he documented his earnings, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his wages are tantamount 
to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not compare his wages to others who are viewed 
to be among the very top of his field of endeavor, as well as how his salary differentiated from others 
at Din similar positions. WhileOpays him a high salary, the Petitioner did not establish that he 
earns a level of compensation commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show that he received notoriety 
or attention based on his earnings. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting his involvement in the International Association of 
Drilling Contractors/American Petroleum Institute's Underbalanced Operations/Managed Pressure 
Drilling Committee. In addition, the Petitioner served on American Bureau of Shipping's Offshore 
Equipment Advisory Committee. Although the Petitioner drafted documents regarding industry 
practices and attended meetings, he did not demonstrate that his participation with these committees 
was somehow remarkable or garnered sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For instance, he did not submit evidence of widespread media coverage 
resulting in significant attention for his associations or professional accomplishments with the 
committees. Moreover, he did not establish that his memberships with these committees reflected that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner offered a single 2017 article posted on worldoil.com. The 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that being quoted in one published piece is consistent with the sustained 
national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that his overall press coverage reflects a 
level of success consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
limited media reporting reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard of 
presenting more extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
The Petitioner presented evidence of his involvement in projects withQ his development of training 
materials and manuals forD and his performance appraisals fromD Moreover, the Petitioner 
provided recommended letters that summarized his work and contributions. The letters, however, do 
not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall 
field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that he has made 
impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the 
5 
field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In fact, the Petitioner submitted reference letters that contained 
identical language, which raise questions regarding their authenticity; and therefore, lack probative 
value. 7 Here, the letters describe his work on projects with Owithout showing how they rise to a 
level of major significance in the greater field and represent an individual who has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
In addition, as mentioned above, the Petitioner has held various positions with D since 2002. 
However, the Petitioner did not establish that any of his roles were either leading or essential toD 
overall. Moreover, he did not demonstrate that his roles at a single company represents sustained 
national or international acclaim or a career of acclaimed work in the field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. While the Petitioner's reference letters indicated his professional 
accomplishments, they did not show how his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that 
he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See letters from I I and I l who also speculated on the possibility of the Petitioner's work 
having an impact at some point in the future, such as ·'[m]any of the contributions that [the Petitioner] and has team 
provided to this project will be used in similar projects for years to come." 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6506742 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a human and environmental rights educator, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a professor at in Brazil .__ _____________ _. 
since 2004. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), discussed farther below. On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that she authored 
scholarly articles in professional publications, thereby fulfilling 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Because the Petitioner has shown that she satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner graduated in pedagogy from~ ___________ ______. I ~n 2000 and received a master's degree in education of health and environment 
sciences froml luniversitario in 2005 and a doctorate in education from Universid~dl I 
in 2015. Moreover, as indicated above, the Petitioner has been employed as a professor at I I 
since 2004. In addition, she performed in various municipality positions within thel I I I such as secretary of social services, undersecretary of social services, and coordinator 
of projects and programs from 2005 -2010. Further, she served as the coordinator ofl I I I from 2004 -2005. As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others, 
authored scholarly articles, and performed in leading or critical roles. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that her personal and professional achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated as part of an examination board at I I judging 
approximately eight final term papers of students from 2015 -2016. Moreover, she assisted the 
examination board in evaluating teachers for an engineering course in 2015. Here, the Petitioner's 
judging experience mainly involves evaluating the work of students and aspiring professionals. Cf, 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Commr. 1994) (USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). 
Further, she did not establish that these instances place her among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set 
for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present 
more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 
30704 (July 5, 1991). She did not show, for example, how her experience in judging students and 
selecting a teacher for a course compare to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her two instances of judging within a two-year 
period contribute to a finding that she has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level ofexpe1tise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
3 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide attention from the 
field based on her work judging students' term papers and selecting a teacher beyond I I 
Moreover, serving on an examination board does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of her field. 
Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent 
history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown 
that her judging experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner authored 15 articles that were published in Revista Dominus from 2015 -
2016. In addition, she authored two books in 2016, as well as one in 2004. However, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that her publication record of 15 papers and two books in the two years preceding 
the filing of her petition is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national 
or international acclaim. She did not submit evidence showing the significance of her authorships or 
how her overall publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of her written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that her publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that other human and 
environmental rights educators have been influenced by her work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner 
provided two articles that cited to her written work. While the citation of her work shows that at least 
a few others in her field have noticed it, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are 
sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the limited citations to her work represent attention at a level consistent with being among that 
small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to her roles, as mentioned above, the Petitioner is employed as a professor at I I ~nd 
previously held munici alit ositions with the~ and served as the coordinator ofc=] as well as 
an instructor a eda o coordinator for a course at I I and post -
graduate coordinator at the.__ ______________ __,. Although she documented her 
professional career, she did not demonstrate that she garnered national or international acclaim in the 
field beyond her employers. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. For 
example, I I adjunct municipal seyetary If higher education for~ 
stated that the Petitioner "carried out her monumental work for , significantly developing our 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
local economy, expanding academic resources, and providing countless employment opportunities to I !citizens." HereJ !commented on the Petitioner's limited, local impact tol I 
but did not discuss how she has been recognized on a national or international scale. 
Likewise __________ _, academic head at .__ __ --t-in_d_i_c_a_te_,d that the Petitioner "created 
numerous new courses and programs that continue to distinguish ..,__ __ -!I among other universities," 
"led her students to produce the most comprehensive, scientifically sound, and progressive research 
in our post-graduate program," and "established teaching guidelines and standardization methods that 
boosted student enrollment and class attendance rates." While I Ide scribed the Petitioner's 
various accomplishments tol l he did not explain whether these achievements garnered a level 
of attention consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her professional career spanning over 15 years, including 
her work at~ D I I orl I represents a career of acclaimed work and sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Although the Petitioner's reference letters indicated her professional accomplishments, they did not 
show how her roles resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, that she drew significant attention 
from the greater field, or that overall field considers her to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner presented evidence reflecting that she received a "Motion of Applause" fromj I for 
"dedicat[ing] herself attentively to her work as a servant, as well as working hard to solve problems 
and seek saloons [sic]." However, the Petitioner did not show that the award reflects the field's 
national or international recognition for excellence. While I I acknowledged the Petitioner's 
accomplishments at the local level, she did not demonstrate that she garnered national or international 
acclaim based on her receipt of the municipal award. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, 
the Petitioner did not establish that such receipt of a regional award represents an individual who is 
among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, as indicated above, the Petitioner is a member of the examination board of .... I __ __. 
Although the Petitioner participated in choosing a professor for a course, she did not demonstrate that 
her participation with this board was somehow remarkable or garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For instance, she did not submit evidence 
of widespread media coverage of her membership resulting in significant attention. See 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. In addition, she did not establish that her membership with this single association reflects 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered four articles from clickl~-~~om and 
odebateon.com; however, none of the articles reflect published material about her. Instead, the articles 
5 
cite the Petitioner as a representative of D in which she provides a quote in response to a 
municipality issue. Similarly, the Petitioner submitted approximately 40 articles from I l.rj.gov, 
akr to pless releases, where the articles quote the Petitioner regarding an announcement or program 
by Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received press coverage consistent with 
the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that website articles that mention 
her name, but are not about her, represent a level of success consistent with being among that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). In 
addition, the Petitioner did not establish that the regional media coverage from three websites reflects 
a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard of presenting more extensive 
documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
Further, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that summarized her written work and 
contributions For instance, I I claimed that "[i]n .__ __ ___,,, _____ __, I I [ the Petitioner] reports findings of her 
original research, which had a major significant impact on her field."6 Moreover, the letter asserts 
that the Petitioner 
.__ _____________________________ ____, .. [t]his 
conclusion in itself was extraordinary, as countless lives as well as investments could be saved by 
avoiding breakage of this commonly-used piece of equipment." Here, the letter recounts the 
Petitioner's research and findings and indicate their publications in a journal without demonstrating 
that her contributions have been of major significance in the field. Instead, the letter speculates on the 
potential influence and on the possibility of being majorly significant at some point in the future. 
In addition, the letters do not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record 
include corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than 
by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that she has made impactfol or 
influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering 
the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Here, the letters describe her work without showing how they rise to a level 
of major significance in the field and represent an individual who has garnered sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting that she presented article at the 1st Academic 
Congress on Environment and Development of I ] in 2004 and eight articles at the I 
Academic Forum ofl lin 2016. The Petitioner, however, did not establish that her presentations 
at two conferences, occurring approximately 12 years apart, is consistent with having a career of 
acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her presentations reflect 
being among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. 
6 Although we discuss one letter, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted two other letters, and we have reviewed 
and considered each one. 
6 
Reg. at 30704. Further, the Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance of her presentations, 
how her overall presentations compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field, or 
whether she received notoriety or wide attention based on her presentations. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6618699 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a data scientist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This frrst preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a senior data scientist at Din I I California. Because the Petitioner has not i~n-d-ic--a-t-ed_o_r_e_s-ta_b_l-is_h_e_d_t_h_a_t _h_e_h_a~s 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on his journal reviews, publication in top 
journals, citation of his work by others, and recommendation letters. In order to satisfy the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that 
the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
At the outset, the Petitioner asserts that "[t]he journal review records strongly support that [he] has a 
significant impact in the field of Data Science." As previously discussed, we have already considered 
the Petitioner's manuscript reviews under the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
Moreover, although he provided several emails requesting him to review papers for journals, he 
demonstrated that he conducted only two of the reviews prior to the filing of his petition. The 
Petitioner must establish that eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied 
from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Moreover, 
although he submitted an email welcoming him to the editorial board of Computers in Biology and 
Medicine, he did show what activities or duties he performed for the journal. Regardless, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate how reviewing the work and contributions of others constitutes his original work. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not support his assertion that his manuscript or editorial review 
experience resulted in a "significant impact" in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that he has "published 18 research articles in top-tier professional 
journals and conference proceedings" and "many of the journals are top 1 % journals worldwide." 
Again, we considered the Petitioner's publication history under the scholarly articles criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Moreover, the Petitioner did not support the record regarding his journal 
ranking claims. Regardless, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication of his articles in 
highly ranked journals or presentation of his work at conferences establish that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a 
high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an 
author's influence or the impact of research in the field or that every article published in a highly 
ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and 
presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of 
"major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 
596 F.3d 1115. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or highly ranked 
journal or presentation at a distinguished conference alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
Furthermore, as it relates to the citation of his work, the record reflects that the Petitioner initially 
submitted evidence from Google Scholar showing that his five highest cited articles received 1,132 
(The Astrophysical Journal Supplement Series), 56 (Astronomy and Computing), 36 (The 
Astronomical Journal), 29 (The Astronomical Journal), 16 (The Astrophysical Journal), and 15 
citations (Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society), respectively. In addition, the Petitioner 
indicated that these citations included self-citations; in other words, the figures included his citations 
in his articles to his own work. Moreover, the Petitioner provided his citation overview from Scopus 
that excluded his self-citations revising the figures: 408 (The Astrophysical Journal Supplement 
Series), 22 (Astronomy and Computing), 5 (The Astronomical Journal), 4 (The Astrophysical Journal), 
and 6 (Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society), respectively. Here, when factoring only 
his independent citations, the number of citations to his articles are drastically reduced. Further, in 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided revised figures from Google 
Scholar. However, the Petitioner did not differentiate the new citations between independent and self­
citations, nor did he show whether the increased citations occurred after the filing of his petition. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest 
in a petitioner's research or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the 
number of citations for any of his published articles are commensurate with contributions of major 
3 
significance. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or relevance of the citations to his 
articles. For example, he did not demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in his field or 
how they compare to other articles that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although 
his citations indicate the some in the field have referenced his work, the Petitioner did not establish 
that his citation numbers to his individual articles rise to the level of major significance consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. 2 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that "[m]any of [his] publications ... are among the top 0.01 % to 
1 % highly cited papers." The record reflects that the Petitioner provided data from Clarivate Analytics 
regarding baseline citation rates and percentiles by year of publication for all fields, including 
chemistry, microbiology, and psychology. The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation 
rates to all fields, however, does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions in his 
field. 3 Once again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions 
of major significance in the field rather than where his citation rates rank among the averages of others 
in any field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's 
citations to other similarly, highly cited articles that his field views as having been of major 
significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. The Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that his written work, using Clarivate Analytics methodology through citation numbers and 
percentiles, resulted in original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Regarding the highest, independently cited article, '~--------~Data Releases of the 
Sloan Digital Sky Survey: Final Data from SDSS-III," published in The Astrophysical Journal 
Supplement Series, the record reflects that he was one of over 300 authors listed in the paper. However, 
the Petitioner did not establish which contributions he made to the article. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate which portions of the article that pertained to his work have been specifically 
cited by others. Further, whilel I indicated that she collaborated with the Petitioner 
during the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), she did not explain what he contributed to the article and 
how it is of major significance in the field. InsteadJ I stated that during his graduate study 
atl !University, the Petitioner "used SDSS data to perform research projects on many 
different topics, including galaxy clustering, I I cosmology, as well as the Galactic 
structures." Here,I I did not elaborate and describe what, if any, of his research projects or 
findings were included in the article. Moreover,! !provided that "[u]sing this dataset, [the 
Petitioner] built the biggesu I in the world, which contain more than ten thousand I I" However,! I did not show whether thel I were included as part 
of the paper or the Petitioner created the I O I afterwards as the result of the SDDS. 
Likewise, the Petitioner presented other reference letters indicating that he worked on SDDS without 
showing his contributions to the project and whether they have been majorly significant in the field. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
3 For instance, according to the data from Clarivate Analytics, papers published in 2018 receiving only 17, 7, and 3 citations 
are claimed to be in the top 0.01 %, 0.10%, and 1.00%, respectively The Petitioner has not demonstrated that papers with 
such citation counts have necessarily had a major, significant impact or influence in the field as evidenced by being among 
the top percentile of most highly cited articles according to year of publication. 
4 
Instead, they reference the For instance,! I opined that "[f]inding 
and analyzing I I is a very challenging task, but [ the Petitioner] successfully built the largest 
ever~------~ from the SDSS data," and "[t]he results have been published in top ranked 
scientific journals and have been presented at multiple international conferences." HereJ kl.id 
not explain how building thel I have significantly impacted or influenced the field 
in a major way. Again, publication in a journal or presentation at a conference is not in-and-of itself 
sufficient to demonstrate an original contribution of major significance in the field. See Kazarian, 580 
F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Similarly,~-------- who was the Petitioner's advisor atl I University and co­
authored the SDSS paper, discussed the Petitioner's research and findings but did not explain how 
they have been of major significance in the field. Rather) I made conclusory statements 
without showing how the Petitioner's work has impacted the field. For example) !claimed 
that "[t]hesel lare very valuable for investigating galaxy evolution, structure formation, and 
cosmology, thus they are also a uni ue contributions to the SDSS collaboration," and "[the Petitioner] 
constructed a lar e set of mock using hundreds of N-body numerical simulations and 
thousands of.__ _ _,,..,-___,,.--__,,..,..... ... His contribution was not just original but essential." Here, I I did not provide any farther explanation demonstrating why he thought the Petitioner's 
contribution was "essential." In addition,! !described other projects by the Petitioner, such 
as studying galactic structure with the.__ _________ __. and constrainingl, I I lwith higher order moments, but he did not indicate or show their major significance in the 
field. 
Moreover, the record contains letters froml I andl I who described the 
Petitioner's work at his employed I For example, they stated that the Petitioner works "on 
areas like advanced time series analysis, information extraction, quantitative information analysis, and 
autonomous text summarization," and he "has played a key role in the algorithm development, and his 
work has been successfully implemented into I ts core products." Although the letters 
generally indicate the Petitioner's work at his employer, they do not include sufficient information 
explaining how his work atl lhas significantly impacted, influenced, or affected the overall 
field beyond his employer. 4 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. 5 Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 6 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 7 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
5 Although we discussed a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
7 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff"d in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6559665 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a journalist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(5)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-)(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates current employment as a manager of brand and editorial for I I in 
Colombia. Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled three criteria relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Although we agree with Director regarding the leading 
or critical role criterion, for the reasons discussed later, we do not concur with the Director's decision 
relating to the published material and high salary criteria. Moreover, for the explanations discussed 
below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills any other previously claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on a .__ _________ _.' from the I ~ in 2007. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in 
the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
The record contains documentation reflecting that D magazine received the prize rather than the 
Petitioner. For instance, a screenshot from guia.com indicates that "this newspaper I I is grng to I 
have worldwide recognition at thel bontest of 2007 in the brand category that the 
... organizes each ear." ( em hasis added). Further, screenshots from community.ulule.com shows 
that "[ t ]he are awarded annually to innovative newspapers." ( emphasis 
added). In addition,__ __ ~ ____ ....,. founder oti ,I ~xyresses
1 that "[d]uring [the Petitioner's] time as editor-in-chief ofc=] the publication received a I I in the Brand Cate~' (emphasis added). Moreover,~ _______ _,,... 
journalist, states that'! lawardedl__J the Best Brand in 2007." (emphasis ladded]- Although 
the documentation reflects that the Petitioner accepted the prize on behalf of he did not 
demonstrate that I I awarded the prize to him. The description of this type of evidence in the 
regulation provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed 
to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that the '.__ _________ __,' is nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. Although the Petitioner submitted 
documentation regardin~ land background eligibility information relating to the lrizes, bt does 
not reflect the national or international significance of the prize. 4 The evidlence, srch a 201 7 
prize pamphlet, promotional material froml I and screenshots from s website, does not 
mention or demonstrate the national or international recognition of excellence in the field. In addition, 
while I I indicated that "past winners ofthel O I[] include prominent 
newspapers such as The Guardian, The Tampa Bay Times and The New York Times," the Petitioner 
did not show how other publications receiving such prize is in-and-of-itself evidence of national or 
international recognition for excellence. Here, the Petitioner provided insufficient evidence to identify 
the j~ _________ _.t' as a nationally or internationally recognized prize for excellence in 
the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argued that he meets this criterion based on membership with the California Chicano 
News Media Association (CCNMA) and the.International Federation of Journalists (IJF). In order to 
satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 5 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at6 .... -~-------~ 
41 I indicated that he ~ and administered the '---------~" as executive dii;ector of youth 
engagement and new literacy atl__Jand the prize was later replaced in 2017 by a youth category ofthd: I I I 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
3 
Regarding CCNMA, the Petitioner submitted the bylaws reflecting that members "shall be 
Chicano/Latino and other men and women dedicated to the purposes of this corporation, who obtain 
primary economic support by gathering, writing and presenting news, and who, upon recommendation 
of the membership committee, are elected by the vote of the Board of Directors." Here, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate how being dedicated to CCNMA and economically supported by being involved 
in the news reflect outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the 
bylaws do not discuss a candidate's achievements, let alone outstanding achievements, as an essential 
condition for membership with CCNMA. 
Further, the Petitioner provided a letter from.__ _________ ____. fashion stylist, who claims 
that "[ m ]embers of the organization must undergo a rigorous application process to ensure that the 
organization consists solely of the highest regarded journalists in the field," and the Petitioner "was 
extended membership into the organization after a careful review of his outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, a letter froml I senior writer, asserts: 
[The Petitioner] was accepted into the CCNMA ... given his outstanding achievement 
in the industry. CCNMA is a renowned institution recognized for being the oldest 
regional organization of journalists of color in the country. The organization's Board 
of Directors, which consists of high ranking professionals from renowned media 
outlets, thoroughly evaluated [the Petitioner's] accomplishments in the journalism 
industry and extensive portfolio before approving his membership into the institution. 
The letters, however, do not indicate how the authors are aware of the Petitioner's membership with 
CCNMA, nor do they explain how they know of the membership requirements for the association. 
Although both letters use the regulatory term "outstanding achievements," they do not contain 
detailed, specific information defining what constitutes outstanding achievements. Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership. 6 As indicated above, the bylaws reflect a membership 
committee provides a recommendation and the board of directors vote for membership. Although he 
submitted screenshots from CCNMA's website reflecting the pictures and names of nine board 
members, the Petitioner did not provide farther evidence showing that they qualify as recognized 
national or international experts. In addition, while I !claimed that the board of directors 
"consists of high ranking professionals," he did not offer detailed information justifying his assertion. 
As it relates to IJF, the Petitioner provided information regarding the principles on the conduct of 
journalists, such as respect for truth and for the right of the public to truth is the first duty of the 
journalist. In addition, he submitted screenshots regarding IFJ's international press card stating that 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6-7. 
4 
"[t]he IFJ Press Card is the world's oldest and most reputable accreditation and provides instant 
confirmation that the bearer is a working journalist." Moreover, "[t]he IFJ Press Card is available to 
the members of national associations and unions of journalists that, in tum, are members of the IFJ." 
Here, he did not show the membership requirements for IFJ rather than the requirements for an IFJ 
press card. Regardless, he did not establish that membership in national associations and unions of 
journalists represents outstanding achievements. 7 Moreover, he did not demonstrate that membership 
with IFJ is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying material 
and explaining his determination. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well 
as the title, date, and author of the material. 8 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we will withdraw the findings 
of the Director for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on four articles from 
eluniversal.com, Ultimas Noticias, diversomagazine.com, and guia.com. However, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the authors of the articles. The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory 
requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the articles from Ultimas Noticias, 
diversomagazine.com, and guia.com reflect published material about him relating to his work. 
Specifically, the Ultimas Noticias article is about th~ lwith the Petitioner mentioned as 
conducting the ceremony. Further, the diversomagazine.com article relates to upcoming projects of 
Owith the Petitioner describing the projects rather than material about him. In addition, the 
guia.com article reports onD's receipt ofthel laward with the Petitioner noted as traveling to 
the ceremony. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that diversomagazine.com and guia.com reflect 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. As it relates to diversomagazine.com, 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (providing that relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion 
that the alien's membership in the associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not 
limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based on a requirement, compulsory or otherwise, for employment 
in certain occupations, such as union membership or guild affiliation for actors). 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 
the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from histats.com showing that it averages around 1.2 visits per 
day. However, the Petitioner did not show the significance of the figures or visits and demonstrate 
how such data reflects status as a major medium.9 Further, based on the low daily visits, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the website is tantamount to a major medium. In addition, the Petitioner 
pointed out that diversomagazine.com received almost 4 million total visits. However, according to 
histats.com, diversomagazine.com was created in December 2007, and the total visits are accumulated 
until January 2015. Here, the Petitioner did not establish the significance of 4 million visits in seven 
years as evidence of a major medium. 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided screenshots from guia.com relating to "links to those relevant 
websites of and about Venezuela." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the screenshots 
show evidence of guia.com's status as a major medium. Although the Petitioner claimed that guia.com 
"is one of the top 500 publications in the whole country of Venezuela," the screenshots do not support 
his assertions. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish where guia.com falls within the "top 500 
publications" in Venezuela. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a Y ouTube screenshot of a video posted by I t from the ~ I I' The Petitioner claimed that the video reflected an interview of him broadcasted on 
Channel 1 in Venezuela. However, the Petitioner did not provide a transcription of the video 
demonstrating published material about him relating to his work. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
establish that I I represents a major medium. Although the Petitioner provided 
television ratings for channels in Venezuela, the issue is whether the television show is a major 
medium. Further, the television ratings refer to 2017 while the Petitioner claimed that the interview 
occurred in 2007. In addition, the Petitioner indicated that the Y ouTube video received over 13,000 
views. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of 13,000 views on a YouTube 
channel. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contended that his creation of a bilingual website, the increased circulation for c=J 
and an advertising campaign fo~._ __ _.Uemonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. In order to meet 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made 
original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1° For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance 
in the field. 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
6 
As it relates to the bilingual website,! I the Petitioner provided screenshots 
claiming it to be "the first bilingual website specializing iJ I' that "travels around the world ~o decipher the digital code of I ~' He submitted an excerpt from the book,I I 
L___...,,.._J which recommends the website and indicates that it "take[ s] the trouble to write all the content 
of their biogs in two languages, which entails a considerable extra effort." However, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that a citation and recommendation from a single book shows that his website 
rises to a level of major significance. The Petitioner, for example, did not offer evidence showing that 
his website has been extensively cited, referenced, or visited. 
Further, the Petitioner submitted a letter from senior editor and content 
creator at the ~----~--------___,....who stated that he created ' 
an audiovisual initiative for which "was heavily inspired inL-------1,-------,_____J and the multi­
platform work [the Petitioner] did through its website." Moreover,~---~ indicated that the 
elements id I "truly inspired the work that [he] currently do[ es] with I I 
I I, where [he] interview[s] personalities usinf the techniques [he] learned from [the Petitioner] 
through his innovative website." While I _ compliments the Petitioner's website and credits 
it for inspiring him to create his own initiative, he did not explain how the Petitioner's website greatly 
impacted or influenced the overall field beyond his own project. 11 
~rdinO, the Petitioner claimed that "[h ]is innovative strategies and decision to implement the 
L.....J Awards led to C=1 receiving al I award." In addition, the Petitioner referenced background 
information and artilles pretously reviewed and discussed under the awards and published material 
criteria regarding the ward. Although the documentation reflects the Petitioner's contributions 
toO, such as serving in the position as co-editor and implementing and hosting thd l 
he did not demonstrate how the evidence shows his contributions of major significance in the overall 
field. For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his co-editing position or I I has 
greatly influenced or impacted the journalism field in a significant manner. 
Similarly, he submitted a letter from L--------r-~~~1ist, who praised the Petitioner for 
growing and diversifying c:::J and indicated that th had two important editions, with 
it receiving al I award in 2007. Again,........,~-~___. iscussed the Petitioner's contributions to 
c=]rather than explaining how the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance 
in the greater field. I I for instance, did not elaborate and show how the Petitioner's 
contributions have been implemented in the overall field or how they have somehow resulted in a 
substantial effect in the field. 
As it pertains to the advertising campaign forl I the Petitioner presented screenshots from 
buzzfeed.com, latintimes.com, and creativity-online.com reporting on the marketing campaign, D I I' which created altars forl I deceased characters. Moreover, the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from an unidentified website reflecting thatl I received a silver 
award in the best multicultural event campaign at the 2018 I I fo~ ~ s ~ , I' 
campaign. In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I I chief marketing officer at 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
7 
~--J who stated that the Petitioner "lead the highly successful I l campaign that took 
place at the I I cemetery," and he "showed his exceptional insight to successfully 
communicate with the Spanish speaking audience." Moreover,! I vice president of brand 
and editori~l aft I indicated the Petitioner's involvement in "set[ting] up five real altars dedicated 
to some of1 I most beloved deceased characters." While the letters described the Petitioner's 
role in leading the campaign and setting-up altars, they did not demonstrate that he created the 
marketing campaign resulting in an original contribution. In fact, as indicated ________ ~ 
received an event campaign award for its work. Regardless, the letters praised the Petitioner for his 
involvement in the campaign without showing that it resulted in a majorly significant contribution in 
the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show that the 1 I campaign significantly influenced or impacted the greater field outside of I I 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining how his work 
qualifies as original contributions of major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate 
how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent 
work add value. 12 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not 
add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.13 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att): Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that his work was on 
display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. 14 The Petitioner claimed to meet this 
criterion based on authoring articles on websites for Hoy and Variety Latino, publishing articles and 
video onl Is social media accounts, and reporting a~ 12015 for Variety Latino. 
However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any of these instances involves displaying his work 
products at artistic venues consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner argued that his evidence should also be considered as comparable 
evidence. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria 
do not readily apply to his occupation.15 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).16 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
13 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
14 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
15 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
16 Jd. 
8 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 17 Here, the Petitioner did not show why he cannot off er evidence 
that meets at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not 
meet at least three criteria is not evidence that a journalist could not do so. In fact, the Petitioner 
claimed to meet seven other criteria. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As indicated earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. In 
order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.18 For the reasons outlined below, the 
record does not reflect that the Petitioner provided sufficient documentary evidence showing that 
fulfills this criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on his salaries at two 
positions a~~--~l Specifically, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing his salary in his previous 
role as the "Social Media Coordinator" and in his current role as "Manager of Brand and Editorial." 
However, the Petitioner provided wage data of occupations that are not same as these positions. In 
particular, the Petitioner offered documentation relating to the salaries of "Reporters, Correspondents, 
and Broadcast News Analysts," "Journalists," "Editors," "Writers and Authors," and "Reporters and 
Correspondents." Although he likens his salaries to other occupations, the Petitioner did not show 
that he commands a high salary "in relation to others in the field," such as social media coordinators 
and branding and editorial managers. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos 
v. US. Dept. o_f Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information 
for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grims on v. INS, 934 F. 
Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); 
Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player 
to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he earned a high salary 
compared to others in his field. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion, we withdraw the decision of the 
Director for this criterion. 
11 Id. 
18 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
9 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner argued eligirilitylfor this criterion based on comparable evidence through his claims of 
growing the circulation of the number pf..llnia.pe visitors to Variety Latino 's Y ouTube channel 
and website, and the number of followers on L___Js social media posts. For the reasons previously 
discussed above under the display criterion, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he qualifies for the 
submission of comparable evidence pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 19 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his claims are "truly comparable" to the 
commercial successes criterion. 20 Here, the Petitioner did not establish how he was responsible for 
increased circulation or the number of site views and followers. For example, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that his specific work increased circulation or attracted a number of site visits and 
followers comparable to a level of "commercial successes" rather than taking credit for the total 
number of visits and followers. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion through the submission of 
comparable evidence. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
19 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
20 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
10 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has experience in 
journalism and media, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among 
the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16716213 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a master mariner and specialist surveyor, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner: (1) had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria; (2) seeks 
to continue working in the area of claimed extraordinary ability; and (3) would substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States, as required. The Petitioner filed two combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. On both occasions, the Director granted the motions, withdrew the prior decision, and 
issued a new denial notice. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal, finding that the 
Petitioner met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, performing in a leading or critical role 
for distinguished organizations or establishments under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reconsider and motion to reopen. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 
291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
The motion to reconsider was not accompanied by a statement regarding the basis for the motion. 
Although the Petitioner acknowledges our dismissal of his appeal in a letter accompanying the motion, 
the letter does not contain any reference to the specific findings made in our decision. In addition, the 
Petitioner's letter did not provide any new facts, and the motion to reopen was not accompanied by 
any new evidence. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) states, in pertinent part: "A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed." The instant motion consists of the above-referenced 
letter from the Petitioner. There is no reference made to the findings made in our decision and the 
specific deficiencies remarked upon therein, no new facts provided to support a motion to reopen, and 
no specific reasons stated for reconsideration.1 Accordingly, the motion will be dismissed for failing 
to meet the applicable requirements. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
1 The Petitioner also did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 8 
C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). Therefore, because the instant motion does not meet the applicable filing requirements listed in 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C), it must also be dismissed for this reason. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16816380 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor of computer science and information systems, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements 
for this classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of that decision. The 
Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider, which we dismissed as 
untimely. 
The matter is now before us on a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner seeks reconsideration of our decision to dismiss the prior motion as untimely filed. She also 
submits new evidence in support of her motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will grant the motion to reconsider, in part, 
and dismiss it in part, and we will dismiss the motion to reopen. The dismissal of the Petitioner's 
appeal will not be disturbed, and the petition will remain denied. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if an 
individual has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. Section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submitthis evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets atleastthree of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly aiiicles ). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was based on an incon-ect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts supported by documentary 
evidence sufficient to warrant reopening the previous motion and/or established that our decision to 
dismiss that motion was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCTS policy. 
A. Procedural History 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four criteria, relating to memberships in 
associations that require outstanding achievements, judging the work of others in her field, original 
contributions of major significance, and authorship of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (v), and (vi). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria relating 
to judging and authorship of scholarly articles but did not satisfy either of the other two criteria. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on May 2 7, 2020, afterreachingthe same conclusion. The Petitioner 
filed her previous combined motion to reopen and reconsider on July 29, 2020, 63 days after we issued 
our decision. 
2 
The applicable regulations state that a motion on an unfavorable decision must be filed within 33 days 
of the date USCIS mails the decision. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). During the coronavirns 
(COVID-19) pandemic, USCIS issued guidance that Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, would 
be accepted if filed within 60 days of the unfavorable decision. We dismissed the Petitioner's prior 
motion as untimely in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2)(v)(B)(l) because it was not filed within 
60 days of the issuance of our decision on May 27, 2020. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that, since our decision dismissing the appeal was served by mail, 
the deadline for filing the motion should have included three additional days beyond the 60 calendar 
day deadline set forth in USCIS' guidance, in accordance with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(b). 
Specifically, she states "the guidance issued by USCIS in recognition of the corona virus pandemic 
made absolutely no mention 8 C.F.R. § 103 .8(b) was invalidated or not going to be recognized." The 
Petitioner therefore maintains thathermotion, received 63 days after we issued our appellate decision, 
should be considered timely filed. 
The Petitioner's assertions regarding the timeliness of her prior motion are persuasive. We will 
therefore grantthe motion to reconsider, in part, to address the merits ofherprevious combinedmotion 
to reopen and reconsider. With the cunentmotion, the Petitioner also submits new evidence, discussed 
below. The Petitioner has not, however, submitted new evidence that overcomes the grounds for 
dismissal of her appeal, nor has she demonstrated that our decision dismissing the appeal involved an 
inconect application of the law or USCIS policy. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's motion to reopen includes the following evidence related to the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii): 
• Evidence that she was elevated to the grade of Senior Member in the Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in I O 12020; 
• Evidence that she was elected as a Full Member in Sigma Xi in 2020; 
• An email confirming her approval for membership as a Scientific and Technical Committee & 
Editorial Review Board member of the World Academy of Science, Engineering and 
Technology inl I 2020; and 
• A letter, dated November 5, 2020, welcoming her to the International Research Conference 
(IRC) Scientific and Technical Committee & Editorial Review Board on Computer and 
Information Engineering. 
The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been 
satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). While 
the referenced evidence is new, it relates to her recent professional achievements as of 2020. 
Therefore, this evidence cannot establish that the Petitioner had a qualifying membership in an 
association that requires outstanding achievements in her field when she filed this petition in August 
2018. At the time of filing, the Petitioner provided evidence that she was a professional member of 
the IEEE. She does not contest our determination that she did not satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) based on that membership. 
3 
The Petition~r's prior motion to reopen also included a July 2020 letter from her employerJ I 
.__ ____ _.JUniversity, indicating that she had recently been promoted and received tenure "as a 
result of her strong performance in the areas of teaching, scholarship and service." The letter describes 
a "rigorous vetting process" that included evaluations by peers and department colleagues, review by 
the university's Professional Practices Committee, and approval by the university's Board of Control. 
The Petitioner indicates that she is submitting the evidence for consideration under the evidentiazy 
criterion related to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v). She states 
that her promotion provides evidence of "additional recognition of [her] major significant 
contributions to her field" and "supports the notion that [her] original scientific work has been of major 
significance in her field." 
Although this evidence, like the evidence related to the membership criterion, is new, it cannot 
establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time she filed the petition, as her promotion occuned neady 
two years later. Nevertheless, the letter from her employer does not adequately support her claim that 
she received the promotion based on recognition for her original contributions of major significance 
in the field. The letter indicates that she was promoted based on her "strong performance" in 
"teaching, scholarship and service." 
For the reasons discussed, the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner 
satisfied either the membership criterion or the original contributions criterion at the time she filed the 
petition. Accordingly, she has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of her appeal, and we will 
dismiss the motion to reopen. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
In her brief in support of the prior motion to reconsider, the Petitioner argues that "the AAO has erred 
in concluding that [her] original scientific work has [not] made contributions ofma·or si ificance in 
the field." She contends that we "mistakenly overlooked a significant portion o s 
expert opinion letter" regarding that original work, "specifically the proposed.,-!======;--~ I !solution she created." The Petitioner quotes a partial paragraph of one o_..___ _ ____.s letters 
in which he describes this I !solution and notes that her "[ e ]xtensive simulation results 
showed that thel !solution exhibits a superior performance over existing methods." 
In dismissing the appeal, our analysis of the evidence the Petitioner submitted under the original 
contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) included a full-page discussion of a letter provided 
b~ lwho had previously served as the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisor. While we did not quote 
directly from the portion of the letter emphasized by the Petitioner on motion, our decision reflects 
that we considere~ Is statements regarding the Petitioner's development of I 
techniques and h~r publiytion of this work in conference proceedings in 
her field. Specifically, we acknowledged tha described the work in technical detail, indicated 
that the work was original and that it has generated some interest from others in the field as evidenced 
by the Petitioner's invitations to present it at conferences. However, we concluded that his letter did 
not demonstratJ bow 1r,e Petitioner's work has already impacted or influenced the field. We 
emphasized tha ___ _.~eferred in general terms to the promise and potential of the research and how 
it might be of future benefit. On motion, the Petitioner has not specifically addressed how we 
misapplied the law or USCIS policy in our analysis ofi f s letterorotherexpe1iopinion testimony 
4 
submitted in support of the original contributions criterion, or how we failed to give adequate 
consideration to this evidence. 
The Petitioner also maintains on motion that "because [her] scientific contribution is not a physical or 
patented discovery, where someone would specifically require her consent to utilize, it is quite difficult 
to obtain evidence to cmroborate that someone is actively utilizing the solution she created to solve 
theirl I issues." She also states that since "there is no readily available evidence to prove ... 
[her] work is actively being implemented or utilized in her field, the fact that her work was presented 
at least four prestigious conferences ... is a clear indicator that this major discovery warranted being 
shared with her peers." 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we considered evidence that the Petitioner had been invited to 
present her work at conferences, as well as evidence of her publication and citation record from Google 
Scholar. We noted that journal and conference publications alone are not sufficient to satisfy the 
original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that the research the 
Petitioner published and presented was demonstrated to be of "major significance." While the 
Petitioner claimed that her record of five publications and 23 total citations provided "direct evidence 
that her original scientific/scholarly work is a contribution in her field," we emphasized that she did 
not provide comparative evidence to show that any of her published aiiicles is highly cited by others 
in the field, or otherwise shown the work has had an influence or impact consistent with an original 
contribution of major significance. Although the Petitioner emphasizes her conference presentations 
again on motion, she does not argue that we overlooked this evidence or contend that we misapplied 
the law or USCIS policy in our evaluation of it. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that our previous determination with 
respect to the original contributions criterion was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time 
of our decision, or that it involved an incorrect application of the law or USCIS policy to the facts 
presented. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established grounds for reconsideration of our decision 
dismissing her appeal. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We have granted the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, in part, in order to evaluate the merits of her 
initial combined motion to reopen and reconsider. We have also considered new evidence submitted 
in support of the instant motion to reopen. For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening or reconsideration of our appellate decision or otherwise established 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal will not be 
disturbed, and the petition will remain denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is granted in part and dismissed in part. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16692207 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petlt10n, concluding that the record 
demonstrated that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a photographer who has displayed his work at exhibits mainly in China and Europe. 
He s~ates that he w~sh_e~ to continuf to work as a photographer in the United States, with the goal of 
openmg an art stud10 ml._ ____ __._ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h )(3)(i)-(x ). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, published material about him and his work, the display of his work at artistic exhibitions, and 
his service as a judge of the work of other photographers. However, the Director then concluded that 
the totality of the evidence did not establish that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage of 
photographers at the top of the field, and thus was not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the totality of the evidence in the 
record in making his determination. After reviewing the record, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion regarding the Petitioner's satisfaction of four of the evidentiary criteria, and will therefore 
turn to the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has submitted evidence that his photographs have been displayed at 
several artistic exhibitions. The record shows that he first began exhibiting his work in 2015 at theD 
Photography Exhibition, and his work has continued to be displayed '----------------' 
2 
in China at exhibitions such asl I in in 2017 and 2018, thd !Photography Festival in 
201 7 and 2019, and the I I F oto F es ti val in 2018. His work has also been shown at several 
exhibitions outside of China including the~------.======,-~of Photography I I 
( h lhel ~ [ Photographic Exhibition, th~ !Photographic Circuit, and the 
I~. ---~!Photographic A~ I, all in 2016. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that several of these exhibitions included photographs from only the 
top artists in the field, which he asserts places him among that group. For instance, regarding the 
exhibition in I I he submitted an article from the website of one its organizers, the 
which notes that "most of these photorraphersl 
are gold medal winners in various international photography competitions and are part of the 
Photography Art team in China." The Petitioner also highlights the acceptance of his work to be 
displayed at thel I exhibition, noting that 203 photographs out of 2310 submitted were 
accepted and citing the statement from the exhibition's website that it is "one of the most highly 
regarded exhibitions in the UK." However, we note that the record does not include information about 
these exhibitions from independent sources, and thus lacks evidence to show that they are considered 
to be prestigious by the international photography community. This is also the case with thd I 
Photographic Circuit and some of the Chinese exhibitions in which the Petitioner participated. 
Regarding the display of the Petitioner's work at the 20181 I Foto Festival, he submitted 
evidence demonstrating that both the festival and his photographs garnered attention. Fisheye, a 
French photography magazine, published a brief article discussing his series I I which was 
exhibited at the festival. The author writes that the Petitioner is "one of the photographers who are 
beginning to be known in China," and describes his photographs o~ I by stating 
that he 
~------------------------' A major work to understand today's China." 
Another French publication, Le Figaro, ublished a much Ion er article about the festival, and briefly 
describes the Petitioner's exhibit as L_ _________ ....------1--_J' In addition, China 
Photo Press devoted an article about both of his displays at th....__ __ ____. Foto Festival, discussing 
~-----------~ The author writes that the Petitioner's "photographing of wonders 
is actually culturally significant ... " and that with both of these projects, "he has gripped the deepest 
and most central disease of the current society." Information about all three of these publications is 
in the record. Le Figaro is a well-known major newspaper, but as stated only briefly describes the 
Petitioner's work. On the other hand, while Fisheye and China Photo Press focus on photography and 
devoted more space to discussing the Petitioner's work, the limited information provided about them 
in the record does not demonstrate their reach and the impact they have within the field of photography. 
Nevertheless, taken as a whole, this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's work was exhibited at 
an important international exhibition in successive years and, as a result of his work's appearance at 
the most recent of these, garnered a certain level of international acclaim as a result. 
The Petitioner also submitted reference letters from two co-founders of the Museum of 
Photography who also both play a role for thel IFoto Festival. ~-~---~states that he 
became aware of the Petitioner's work through the festival, and describes his ~-------~ noting that he "is one of the very few members in the Chinese photography field who have the courage 
to use their works to criticize and challenge" the Chinese government. He also writes that the 
Petitioner "is one of the Chinese photographers who have aggrandized public recognition." 
3 
,,___--, _ _.~s colleague at thel I museum, and founder and director of the festival, is D 
.__ _ ___,I She writes thatl l'has attracted widespread attention and unanimous praise from 
experts and media from home and abroad" after bein exhibited at the festival and that he "is the first 
photographer in China to .__ ___ ----r-----...,.._ ________________ ____. I t She also describes,__ ____ _, and concludes by listing publications in which 
the Petitioner's work has been featured. However, we note that the record does not include evidence 
of media attention or discussion of his work beyond that which has already been discussed. These 
letters serve to confirm that the Petitioner's exhibitions at thel IFoto Festival drew attention 
and were considered by some to be a highlight of the festival. 
As a result of his participation in these exhibitions, the Petitioner also received several awards for his 
work. At the 2016 I I he received a PSA (Photographic Society of America) Gold Medal 1 
for I I' in thel I category for his photograph I I This work also 
resulted in the Petitioner receiving a I I Award for Chinese Art" in the same year. An 
article posted on the website www.fengniao.com describes a ceremony and includes a list of nominees 
and winners for thel ~ Award for Chinese Art. This article indicates that 29 photographers 
were given this award in 2016, 4 received the "Bole Award" and 5 received the "lifetime photography 
achievement award." The article further states that "nominees for the award must have already 
obtained the highest awards in various art activities and competitions ... ," that candidates for the award 
may apply and are limited to "Chinese living in China and abroad," and that over the course of 4 award 
periods over 10 years, moje than 1 QQ ubTographers have received the award. In addition, the article 
describes nominees for th ~-----~-Award for Chinese Art as "the future of Chinese Art," while 
the awardees are "the pioneers and leaders of Chinese Art" and the 50 photographers who have 
received the lifetime achievement award over the same period are "masters who have reached the peak 
of their own careers." The number of awards given at each event and the fact that the award received 
by the Petitioner is not the top award at the event indicates that he is not one of the small percentage 
of photographers at the top of his field on a national or international scale. Further, although the 
Petitioner submitted articles describing later instances of thd I A ward for Chinese Art 
ceremony that were posted to popular Chinese web portals, this was the only article submitted 
regarding the fourth edition in 2016, and the record does not include information about the website 
where it was posted. 
Related to thel I Award for Chinese Art is another honor received by the Petitioner in 
201 7, the 1 I Chinese Photographers Award." An article posted on artron.net indicates 
that this award is sponsored by the organizers of the I I Award for Chinese Art and is "one 
of the series of activities" involved with that award. The article also identifies that organization as its 
source, indicating that it is a press release or similar material. Further, it states that this was the first 
year that this award was given, and that the organizinf committee ranked a total of 334 applicants in 
5 different categories, with the Petitioner placed in the _ I' category. A different 
article regarding the 2019 edition of these awards, posted on pop-photo.com, explains that candidates 
are ranked based upon a point system, with points given for the receipt of awards at photography 
competitions, membership in photography associations, and the publication of a candidate's work. 
1 We note that the record includes references to photography medals associated with multiple photography associations 
which were also awarded at some of the festivals in which the Petitioner participated. With the lack of information in the 
record regarding these associations and the type, level and number of medals with which they are associated, 
4 
Notably, the highest number of available points is awarded to recipients of thd I Award 
for Chinese Art, along with other awards about which no information is provided. These materials 
indicate that this ranking is therefore not based upon an independent evaluation of the quality or artistic 
value of the candidate's work, but is instead a measure of their activity and previous recognition 
received at photography competitions in the previous year. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his receipt of additional awards for his work as a 
photographer, including a~ Gold Medal and I O I awards from thel I in 
2016 (part of the I I Photographic Circuit) and a I I Award at the I I 
International Photography Exhibition in 2019. Regarding the first of these, the record includes a 
description of a later instance of the I I Photographic Circuit from its own website, a list of accepted 
photographers and photographs for the 2016 edition of thd I Salon, and a certificate for the 
Petitioner's receipt ofthel b award. The website page indicates that more than 500 awards 
are granted, presumably across all four salons, and that this includes "Best of Salon" and "Best of 
Circuit" awards. While the Petitioner's receipt of these awards demonstrates some level of 
recognition, he did not receive the highest awards at this event, and the record does not include 
evidence of recognition beyond the event and its organizers. In addition, as with the~ Gold Medal 
mentioned above, the record does not include information about these photography associations and 
the number and type of medals and other awards issued by them. This evidence is therefore 
insufficient to establish the Petitioner's relative standing in the field outside of the events in which 
they were awarded. Similarly, the information concerning thel I Award is limited to a 
certificate and information from a website with an unknown affiliation. 
In addition to the evidence of the display of his work at exhibitions, the Petitioner also submitted 
evidence that shows that some of his photographs were placed in the collections of artistic institutions. 
Specifically, one certificate indicates that five photographs of thd I series (presumably 
referring to thel beries discussed above) were transferred to the collection ofthJ I 
Academy of Arts as part of a donation agreement in 2019, and another certificate states that one of the 
Petitioner's photographs was collected b~ !University in China in 2017. We note that although 
the Petitioner initially asserted that this evidence demonstrated that he had made original artistic 
contributions of major significance, he did not focus on it in responding to the Director's notice of 
intent to deny or on appeal. Further, although the evidence indicates that both are reputable 
institutions, it does not establish that the collection of the Petitioner's photographs is a high honor or 
is indicative of acclaim for his work at the highest levels. 
After his success at the aforementioned exhibitions, the Petitioner served as a judge at the 201 7 ._I _ __. ~-----~~ Photography Art Exhibition. He submitted a letter from this organization which 
verifies his service as a judge, and an article posted on sohu.com by I t indicates 
that this exhibition is hosted by the I I Photography Museum and been held annually since 2010. 
This evidence shows that he is considered to be an expert in photography and has achieved some level 
of recognition. However, it does not establish that this exhibition is prestigious or that selection as a 
judge for this exhibition is reserved for those photographers at the top of the field. 
As noted above, in order to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, the Petitioner 
must show that he has been the subject of sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the top of his field, and that his achievements have been 
5 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. The evidence demonstrates that he began 
exhibiting his work in 2015, and that he received awards for his work in international competitions 
the following year. However, it does not show that these initial awards were considered to be 
presti,ious, or that his receipt of them placed him among top photographers. The Petitioner's receipt 
of the IA ward for Chinese Art and , I Chinese Photographers Award in 
201 7 show that he was receiving acclaim for his work at the national level, and his participation as a 
judge of other photographer's work at a single exhibition demonstrates that his expertise as a 
photographer had begun to be recognized. More recently, the attention given to the 20181 I 
Foto Festival, and in particular to the display of the Petitioner's collections there, illustrates a growing 
level of appreciation and notice of the Petitioner's work in the field of photography. However, the 
evidence does not establish that he has enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or international level, 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). In this case, 
although the evidence shows that the Petitioner has raised his standing among his peers in the field of 
photography, it does not establish that he is yet one of that small percentage at the top of the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20489784 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a general manager in the field of I seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a manager of a I I company in China who has over ten years of 
experience in the field. The Petitioner intends to continue working as a company manager in the field 
of in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four of the ten criteria, namely: 
membership in associations in the field which require outstanding achievements of their members 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); published material in major trade publications or other major media 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); and high 
salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the published material and leading or critical role 
criteria 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii), and we agree with that determination. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is otherwise eligible for 
the classification sought. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erroneously found that 
he did not satisfy the membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner has not 
pursued his initial claim that he meets the criterion related to high salary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Therefore, we deem this issue to be waived and will not address this criterion in 
our decision. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not meet three of the 
criteria, and therefore does not satisfy the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought. 1 The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion based 
on his memberships in the China Fisheries Association and the I IAquafarming 
Association. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the associations did not require outstanding 
achievements of their members, and therefore the Petitioner's memberships in these associations did 
not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's 
determination was erroneous, noting that the Director ignored relevant evidence, such as a letter from 
the president of the IAquafarming Association, submitted in response to the request for 
evidence. 
Regarding his membership in the China Fisheries Association, the Petitioner submitted a Letter of 
Certification from the association' sl I las well as a list of the association's 
members for 2019. According tol I China Fisheries Association's members "are composed 
of Chinese fishery company leaders, influential and representative people, and persons who have made 
outstanding contributions to China's fishery." He further states that "members need to submit a 
membership application, and they can join the association after being reviewed by the directors or the 
executive directors' review." I further confirms that the Petitioner joined the China Fisheries 
Association in February 2019. 
The Petitioner, however, failed to submit evidence of the membership requirements for this association. 
As the record does not contain the bylaws or other official documentation of the association's membership 
criteria, we cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's membership in this association is qualifying. 
Although I I described the personal accomplishments of the Petitioner, and provided profile 
summaries for several individuals he claims review membership applications for the association, he did 
not provide any evidence of the membership requirements of the China Fisheries Association, and 
whether membership is judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields 
pursuant to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner also claims that his membership in thel IAquafarming Association satisfies 
the requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner submitted a Letter of Certification from the association's 
president, along with the section of the association's bylaws that pertain to membership criteria and 
excerpts from the association's website. 
Article 8 of the Bylaws for the Aquafarming Association states as follows: 
Individuals who apply to join the Association must meet the following requirements: 
(1) Support the Association's constitution; 
(2) Have the willingness to join the Association; 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual. supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing an example of admission to membership in the National 
Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member. and 
membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
(3) Made outstanding influence or outstanding talents in _______ and 
trading industry; 
( 4) Be able to fulfill the association's membership! obligations; 
( 5) Willing to make greater contributions to the aquaculture industry with all 
members of this association. 
The bylaws reflect that outstanding influence or outstanding talents in the ~and 
trading industry are prerequisites for membership into the association. Influence and talent in the field, 
however, are not outstanding achievements, and we therefore agree with the Director's determination 
that the bylaws do not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by ignoring the information provided in the letter 
from the association's 11 I. Upon review we note that in a Letter of Certification,□ 
provides an overview of the Petitioner's career in the field, noting that he "has been deeply 
involved in the I field for more than 10 years and is an authoritative expert in thel field in 
China." He further confirms that the Petitioner has been a member of thel IAquafarming 
Association since 2013. 
While we acknowledge! I statements regarding the Petitioner and his accomplishments, the 
personal achievements of the Petitioner are not relevant to this criterion. Instead, the Petitioner must show 
that he is a member of associations that require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. In his letter, did not establish that the I 
Aquafarming Association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that he is a skilled manager in the field of I and that he has 
gained recognition for his abilities in the field. But he has not shown that this recognition rises to the 
required level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 29, 2024 In Re: 29828355 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a synchronized swimming athlete, coach, and performer who seeks classification as 
an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
After issuing a notice of intent to deny, the Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, 
Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition). The Director concluded the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner had a major, internationally recognized award, nor did it demonstrate that she 
sustained the requisite level of acclaim prior to filing the petition. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
Because the Director did not offer any analysis on the four regulatory criteria they decided the 
Petitioner met, we will also move directly to the subsequent procedural portions of the case. 
TI. FINAL MERITS DETERMINATION 
A final merits determination includes an evaluation of several overarching aspects of the case. That 
includes evaluating whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20). See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by 
a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
As the Director decided the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate the 
primary basis of the Director's denial; whether the Petitioner has demonstrated that she maintained 
her sustained national or international acclaim by a preponderance of the evidence. 
The Petitioner characterizes herself as a professional synchronized swimming athlete who has also 
been a member of the Venezuelan national team representing her country at multiple national and 
international competitions. She participated in several qualifiers for the Olympic Games and national 
championships, and on multiple occasions was recognized as the regional-level athlete of the year. 
Despite her young age, her involvement in synchronized swimming spans more than two decades. 
The Petitioner left her home country and last entered the United States in 2016. 
2 
Within the final merits determination, the Director primarily focused on the Petitioner's shortcoming 
of not showing she sustained her acclaim as an athlete in the years preceding the petition filing. In 
particular, the Director discussed the four areas in which she satisfied the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and how that acclaim abruptly ended around 2015 and 2016 and was nonexistent 
for seven or eight years through the time she filed the petition in 2023. And we agree that after moving 
to the United States, the Petitioner was not successful in maintaining a similar level of acclaim on a 
national or international level that she had achieved in decade plus before moving to this country. 
On appeal, the Petitioner responds to that portion of the Director's decision by stating that her career is 
not one that has any gaps or low points, and that she has sustained national and international recognition 
for decades. The Petitioner continues indicating she was an active member of institutions in Venezuela 
until her family left her home country to come to the United States in 2016 and immediately after she 
arrived in this country, she "had a transition phase, short, brief while her and her family were adapting to 
the new country." She maintains that she "never lost contact with her career, colleagues and organizations 
that supported her." Further, she claims during the time frame from 2017 through 2020, she received 
offers from various colleagues in different countries "to start collaborating with them in the coaching of 
[ synchronized] swimming national teams." 
As an initial point, the Petitioner does not explain within the appeal brief how these job offers on national 
teams somehow equates to the types of acclaim that this restrictive immigrant classification requires. 
Next, the Petitioner reflects on the difficulties of finding activities in her field during 2020 and 2021 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, but she does not address the post-pandemic time between mid-to 
late-2020 when her state of Florida reopened almost all aspects of society. Even ifher endeavor required 
her to travel outside of her home state, it remains that she has not explained why the record is bereft of 
the types of achievements and acclaim she experienced over the nearly two decades prior to the petition 
filing. 
Finally, the Petitioner has joined a professional synchronized swimming and water dance company as a 
performer. But that appears to have occurred after she filed the petition. Despite the fact that any 
post-petition filing achievements cannot be fully considered in this petition, even with this achievement, 
she has not offered any material illustrating accolades or acclaim associated with this employment. 
The Petitioner states that there is no definitive timeframe specified in the regulation of what constitutes 
sustained declaim. But for an individual who has been in synchronized swimming since she was five 
years old and spanning more than the two following decades, a seven to eight-year hiatus appears to be a 
situation of one who has not successfully sustained national or international acclaim at a commensurate 
level. 
Although the Director discussed other shortcomings within the denial such as the Petitioner's transition 
from athlete to coach, our sustained acclaim determination is dispositive of this appeal, we will not 
address and we reserve the Petitioner's remaining appellate arguments. Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 
328, 332 (2022) (citing INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are not 
required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); 
see also Matter of Chen, 28 I&N Dec. 676, 677 n.1, 678 (BIA 2023) (declining to reach alternative 
issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 
In summary, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Considering the lack of a showing that the Petitioner has sustained the level of national or 
international acclaim that she once enjoyed, she has not submitted extensive documentation exhibiting 
she has attained a level of expertise placing her among that small percentage that has risen to the very top 
ofthe field ofendeavor. The record does not demonstrate that her personal and professional achievements 
rise to a level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that 
burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-M-V-S-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a mountaineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The petition was initially approved. Subsequently, the Director of the Nebraska Service Center issued 
the Petitioner a notice of intent to revoke the approval of the petition (NOIR). Upon receipt of the 
Petitioner's response to the NOIR, the Director revoked the approval of the Form 1-140, Immigrant 
Petition for Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met at least three of the 
ten initial evidentiary criteria but that he did not qualify for this classification in the final merits 
analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits contends that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, provides that "[t]he Attorney General [now Secretary, 
Department of Homeland Security], may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient 
cause, revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." The realization by 
the director that the petition was approved in error may be good and sufficient cause for revoking the 
approval. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988). 
11. ANALYSIS 
As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director held that the Petitioner met the following criteria: awards, 
membership, published material, judging, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), 
(iii), (iv), and (viii) respectively, but that he had not established eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
Here, we agree that the Petitioner has established the leading or critical role criterion, but we disagree 
with the Director regarding the criteria for awards, membership, published material, and judging; we 
find that the record does not establish that the Petitioner meets these requirements. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationa lly recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion, but we find that the evidence in the record 
is insufficient to establish that he has received such prizes or awards in the field. The record contains 
an August 2016 letter from the president of the 
1 __ . , stating that "the has set its standards for [the] championship awards of 
2 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
members" for climbing summits. This letter contains a chart prepared by 
regarding the championship standards for ascending summits of differing heights, noting the type of 
medal as a bronze, silver, or gold medal from the categories of National, Asia, and World depending 
on the height of the summit. refers to these accomplishments as being equivalent to a medal 
in these categories. For example, he states that the Petitioner "has won several national and 
international championships," noting that "[h]is highest achievement is [the] equivalent of [an] 
International Silver Medal due to his climb of .. in 2010." 1 The record 
contains documents from the with the title, "Championship Certificate," which identify the 
peak that the Petitioner has climbed and which also state what its equivalency is as a medal. For 
example, the "Championship Certificate" indicating that the Petitioner climbed the in 
2014 states that this ascent is the "equivalent of Asia's Gold Medal." The use of the term "equivalent" 
demonstrates that this is a certificate of an achievement that is equivalent to an award, but the record 
does not demonstrate that the Petitioner actually received a prize or an award to meet the regulatory 
requirements of this criterion. 2 
In addition, the record does not contain corroborating evidence of these championships, such as bylaws 
from the or press coverage discussing the championships and whether awards are given for 
climbing these mountains. We also note that the record contains certificates from the government of 
Nepal about certain summits the Petitioner has climbed, but these certificates are called into question 
because they do not use the same language in referencing the governmental entity that issued the 
certificate. For example, the record contains a certificate from the 
'certifying that the Petitioner successfully climbed === in 2008. The 
record contains similar certificates indicating that the Petitioner climbed in 2010 
and in 2011, but these documents state that they were issued by the 
for the government of Nepal and omit the term While the 
record does contain objective evidence indicating that the Petitioner did climb these summits, this 
discrepancy calls into question these certificates. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). We also note that the certificate indicating that the Petitioner ascended 
the states that it is a height of , but the certificate from the government of 
Nepal for this climb states that it is ' ~ When viewed together, these inconsistencies 
diminish the persuasiveness of the evidence submitted as to whether the Petitioner has received a prize 
or award that is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Id 
The record contains other certificates indicating that the Petitioner climbed the 
in 2014, for example, but it is unclear what entity issued this certificate. For the 
reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that the certificates in the record constitute a 
prize or award, nor does the record contain other evidence indicating that these are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence m the field. While we acknowledge the Petitioner's 
accomplishment in having climbed and these other peaks, the record does not 
1 The record reflects tha tallest mountain in the world. 
2 While we do not cite to each certificate submitted in support of the petition, we have considered all of them. See Noroozi 
v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 544 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) (noting that it is not erroneous that a USCIS decision does not 
cite from each and every letter in support of a petition). 
3 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
reflect that he received a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award as a result. Therefore, 
he has not established that he meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner met this criterion, but we disagree. The Petitioner states that he 
meets this criterion based on his membership in the team of mountaineering. In 
another letter written by in December 2016, he states that the Petitioner was one of only 
· · ~-· ~ ~ ~ · · ~ out of 240 professional mountaineers who 
applied for the expedition. However, the Petitioner does not indicate what being on the 
team entails and whether it requires outstanding achievements of its members for membership 
on the team. Instead, states that after "several rounds of evaluation and camp participation," 
qualified for the team." 's letter from August 2016 indicates that 
these evaluations are based on the applicants' "physical fitness, endurance, temperance, and 
understanding," which he notes are "crucial characteristics for successful mountaineers." This 
demonstrates that membership on the team is based on an applicant's physical and mental 
abilities rather than being based on outstanding achievements. The record does not contain any 
evidence of the membership bylaws or the official admission requirements for the 
team of mountaineering. The Petitioner has not identified the national observers who evaluated him, 
nor has he submitted evidence to demonstrate that they are nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field. 
The Petitioner cites one of our decisions concerning an athlete's membership on a team, 
Matter of K-S-Y-, ID# 14269 (AAO Mar. 9, 2016). First, we note that this decision was not published 
as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual 
case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues 
considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, we conclude that the facts in this matter are 
distinguishable from those of that decision. In that case, the record demonstrated that the petitioner 
competed in selection matches that were judged by nationally recognized experts, to determine who 
would be on the national judo team. Additionally, the evidence indicated that Korea had the third 
highest number of Olympic medals in judo of any other country, which meant that qualifying for that 
team required outstanding achievements. Here, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence 
about the team of mountaineering, its requirements for membership, or documentation 
establishing that the individuals were who selected him for this team were nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in the field. 
The Petitioner indicates that the is an active member of the International Climbing and 
Mountaineering Federation (UIAA , and the record contains the UIAA articles of association and its 2017 
annual report, which lists the as a member, but this evidence does not establish that the Petitioner 
is a member of the UIAA or that it requires outstanding achievements of its members for membership. 
Therefore , the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
4 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the Petitioner had established that he met this criterion. We disagree. In order 
for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as stated in the 
regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. To qualify 
as major media, the publication should have significant national or international distribution. 
Furthermore, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires that "[s]uch 
evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation." 
Here, we note that the record contains articles from the Kurdpress International News Agency (KINA) 
about the Petitioner, but these articles do not meet the requirements of this criterion as they do not 
state the name of the author, as required. We also note the in both articles from the KINA, from 2015 
and 2016, they state that the Petitioner has been a member of the mountaineering team for 14 
years, which would mean that he would have joined in 2001 or 2002, but the August 2016 letter from 
indicates that the Petitioner has been a member of this team since 2004. The Petitioner must 
resolve this inconsistency with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. While this discrepancy calls into question this evidence, the 
fact that the authors are not listed means that this evidence does not meet the requirements for this 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record also contains articles from the Islamic Republic 
News Agency (IRNA) and the HamshahriOnline News Website that do not state the names of the 
authors and therefore do not meet the regulatory requirements. Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion for having evaluated the performances of those 
seeking to join mountaineering teams. In his August 2016 letter, states 
that since 2012, the Petitioner had attended eight camps across as a national observer of 
mountaineers. indicates that in this role, the Petitioner was tasked with evaluating their 
performances to determine whether they had the capacity to climb the summits as a member of the 
"Himalayan climbs national team." The Petitioner must show that he has actually participated in the 
judging of the work of others. 3 Here, he has not provided evidence corroborating letter, 
such as documentation detailing his responsibilities as a national observer for or identifying 
specific instances of his judging. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of this criterion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1. pdf. 
5 
.
Matter ofS-M-V-S-M-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 4 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical. 5 
The plain language of the criterion requires the petitioner to show his leading and critical role for 
organizations and establishments, as a whole, not merely events organized by organizations and 
establishments. states in his July 2018 letter that has arranged 14 Himalaya 
expeditions since 2008 and that the Petitioner has been the team leader for three of these expeditions. 
Here, we find that the evidence in the record does not establish that his role as a team leader on three 
out of 14 expeditions constitutes a leading or critical role to the organization as a whole. For example, 
with respect to whether he performed a leading role, the Petitioner has not provided evidencing 
demonstrating how his role as a team leader affected the overall or how his position fits within 
the hierarchy of those employed by the With respect to whether this constitutes a critical role, 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated how his role as a team leader is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the s principal activities. For example, the record does not demonstrate the 
Petitioner's duties as a team leader or whether he was the primary leader on these three 
expeditions or how many expeditions the arranges to show the influence he has had in the 
organization as a whole. Thus, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
In summary, we conclude that the Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required 
initial evidence of either a qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality 
of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
Accordingly, the approval of the petition was properly revoked. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-M-V-S-M- , ID# 2397447 (AAO Apr. 30, 2019) 
4 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF W-M-E-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not shown he met any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that he meets three criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of W-M-E-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) or offer comparable 
evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) to meet the basic eligibility requirements. The Director held 
that he did not meet any of these criteria. 
The Petitioner asserts throughout his brief that the Director violated the U.S. Constitution by failing 
to consider evidence, repeating errors, requiring further evidence, holding prior judgment, concluding 
the decision before receiving the Petitioner's response to the request for evidence, and creating 
unknown rules. As the Petitioner cites constitutional concerns throughout the brief, we note that 
USCIS administers extraordinary ability visas pursuant to statutory and regulatory authorities, and the 
Petitioner does not argue that a specific provision of the statute or regulations is unconstitutional. To 
the extent that the Petitioner's argument had been grounded in the constitutionality of the statute and 
pertinent regulations, we lack jurisdiction to rule on the constitutionality of laws enacted by Congress 
or of regulations promulgated by DHS. See, e.g., Matter of Fuentes-Campos, 21 I&N Dec. 905,912 
(BIA 1997); Matter of C-, 20 I&N Dec. 529, 532 (BIA 1992). Therefore, we will consider the 
Petitioner's constitutional concerns as they relate to whether USCIS complied with the applicable 
statute and regulations. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the seven criteria relating to awards, membership, 
published material, original contributions, scholarly articles, leading or critical roles, and salary. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix). For the reasons discussed below, the 
2 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this 
criterion based on a number of awards he received as a youth 
or student. The record contains a certificate of merit from the 
stating that the Petitioner won first place 
awards in the field of "articles," "culture," and "individual talents" at the respective 17th, 18th, and 
19th 1 He also contends that his awards for 
"Creative Writing," "Short Story," and an acceptance letter to represent the 
1 satisfy this criterion. Finally, the Petitioner submitted certificates received for voluntary 
work at camps in 
The record does not establish that any of these awards satisfy the requirements of the criterion. The 
certificates related to the work camps note they are for the Petitioner's "role in strengthening 
friendship," and thus appear to be acknowledgements of his participation rather than an award. The 
Director noted in her decision that no evidence was submitted to establish that any of the awards were 
for excellence in the field of endeavor. On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence 
to overcome that ground. Finally, although the Petitioner contends that the awards from the 
receive national recognition as they are presented by the government, 
he submits no evidence to support his position regarding their recognition. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has received nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in his field of endeavor. Therefore, the evidence does demonstrate that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that his membership in the satisfies 
this criterion. The record contains the Petitioner's membership card, a document entitled "History of 
the Syndicate," and a webpage from the World Federation of Engineering Organization (WFEO), 
stating that the _ _ "is considered an advisory body of the State in 
the field of specialization." The Petitioner references the law organizing the work of the in his 
appeal brief, but such documentation is missing from the record. 
1 We note that the translations of these documents, and the majority of the translations in the record, do not state that they 
are complete and accurate. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
3 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that "any scientific syndicate, including Egypt, requires governmental 
accreditation as a stipulation for joining" and that "earning a PhD in civil Engineering [sic], from a 
reputable governmental university in Egypt, is in itself and by itself a major outstanding achievement; 
because the PhD is judged by national experts in the field, and accredited by the government." 
(Emphasis in the original). However, he has provided no evidence or support for his claim that his 
doctorate degree equates to an outstanding achievement as contemplated by the regulation. 
Additionally, he has not demonstrated that his degree was judged by nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in their fields. 
Furthermore, the evidence that has been submitted by the Petitioner does not establish that his 
membership in satisfies the regulatory requirements. The record lacks documentation of the 
membership criteria, and thus does not establish that the Petitioner's advanced degree is required for 
entry. Additionally, the translated document related to the history of the organization is not properly 
certified in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), and therefore we cannot meaningfully determine 
if it supports the Petitioner's claims. Thus, the record does not demonstrate that his membership in 
establishes eligibility under this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director held that the published material in the record was not entirely about the Petitioner and 
that the articles were not published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
After review, we agree that most of the articles do not qualify under this criterion, either by not being 
about the Petitioner, not appearing in a qualifying publication, or by failing to provide all the 
information required by the regulation, such as the author's name. The Petitioner also claimed that 
several television appearances established his eligibility, but he submitted no evidence, such as 
transcripts, to support his claim. 
However, we find that one article, discussing the Petitioner and his research on the use of 
environmental waste as a shield against radiation, satisfies the requirements of the regulation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner introduces this criterion on appeal and references several contributions he has made. 
First, he references a paper that was presented at the 22nd 
m in 2014, entitled, _ _ 
" The Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating how this 
presentation has impacted the field, such as evidence that it has elicited widespread commentary or 
4 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
received notice from others in the field. 2 Even though this appears to be an original scientific 
contribution, the Petitioner has not provided evidence that it is of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner cites a portion of his curriculum vitae which contains two photographs of him with 
Prince the Prince of the 
in 2015. The Petitioner states that the photographs show him presenting the Prince with 
a development study for the region. The record contains a letter from the Prince, thanking the 
Petitioner for the proposals while stating that they are under study in the in his administration and 
other departments. The record does not contain a copy of this development study or other evidence 
demonstrating that it has had an impact in the field. 
The record contains a letter from , Founder and President of the 
, which she indicates is an organization "that encourages 
Arab women, as a minority, to engage positively in U.S. society." She adds that the Petitioner assisted 
with translating an educational kit about autism into Arabic as part of a charitable project to 
the Arab community of Morocco. She describes his help as "priceless, valuable and generous" and 
indicates that he "significantly contributed in helping both the poor autistic children and their families 
in the US and across the world, who will benefit from this project now and in the future." Letters that 
specifically articulate how contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. Letters that lacks specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not 
add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.3 Here, l letters speaks only in generalities of the impact of the Petitioner's work, 
without providing specifics about the impact of his work as a translator, and thus fails to demonstrate 
the significance of his work. 
Finally, the Petitioner also claims that he supervised a master's degree researcher, but provides no 
information to support this claim or to demonstrate its impact on the field. Therefore, for the reasons 
discussed above, the record does not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As noted above, the record contains an article entitled, " 
that was presented at the 22nd 
in 
in 2014. The record reflects that this was published in the 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology in 2014, which is a professional 
journal. Accordingly , the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/H TML/PolicyManual.html . 
3 Id. 
5 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the 
role was critical for the organization or establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner raises this claim for the first time on appeal. He bases his assertion that he meets this 
criterion on a number of bases. Initially, he claims that the recommendation letter from 
the editor-in-chief of the, newspaper establishes eligibility. The recommendation letter, 
the Petitioner claims in his brief, is "strong proof for the appellant's unique undivided talent, as a 
think-tank, who genuinely can employ his overall academic skills in providing practical life solutions 
in different fields." While this letter compliments the Petitioner, it does not identify any leading or 
critical role he has performed for any organization or establishment. Therefore, it cannot establish 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner then claims that his role in translating the autism educational kit into Arabic for 
meets this criterion. While the letter from describes his background and his 
translation work, it does not address how his work for the organization was leading or critical. Nor 
has the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate that has a distinguished reputation. 
Thus, he has not established that his work with the organization satisfies the evidentiary criterion. 
The letter of appreciation the Petitioner received for his work in Saudi Arabia from provides the basis 
for his next claim of eligibility under this criterion. The relevant portion of the prince's letter states 
"[w]e have received number [sic] of your good propositions. We thank you for these propositions. 
We inform you that these propositions are under study in the .. and other departments." The 
letter does not identify what propositions its author is referencing, nor does it indicate that the 
Petitioner's role is either leading or critical. Aside from photographs of the Petitioner with the Prince, 
the record does not contain other evidence related to his work in Saudi Arabia that would establish 
eligibility under this criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims that his role at satisfies the requirements of this criterion. In his 
brief, he does not identify what role he held or explain why it was leading or critical. He refers to a 
letter from an assistant professor of philosophy at . who discusses the Petitioner's 
role in forming and presiding over a club at the university, the 
does not describe how this role with a student club was leading or critical for the 
university, nor does the 
record contain additional evidence related to this organization. The Petitioner 
also cites to several documents referencing him as a member of the "Diamond Team" and inviting him 
to continue on as a member. Neither the Petitioner nor the evidence in the record explain what the 
Diamond Team is, what the Petitioner 's role was, or how it was leading or critical. Therefore , the 
Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that his roles at . or any other 
organization meet this criterion. 
.
Matter of W-M-E-
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner asserts that he has a high probability of receiving higher remuneration than his peers in 
the field, based upon the letter from the Prince of the in 2015. As 
discussed above, the Prince thanks the Petitioner for the propositions he has presented and states that 
they are under study in his administration and other departments, but there is no discussion about 
compensation. Nor has the Petitioner submitted other evidence of salary. While he asserts that he is 
likely to receive higher remuneration than his peers in the field, the regulation requires that he has 
already commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in the field. Therefore, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
Finally, the Petitioner cites 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) which allows him to submit comparable evidence 
to establish his eligibility if the standards at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to his 
occupation. He asserts that his three post-graduate academic degrees constitute comparable evidence 
to establish his eligibility. First, the Petitioner has not established why the criteria addressed above 
do not readily apply to his occupation. Second, the Petitioner has not established that this other 
evidence establishes his eligibility. He has not shown how his master's degree in teaching Arabic as 
a foreign language from the constitutes evidence of his expertise or acclaim in civil engineering 
research and teaching. While the Petitioner has a Ph.D. in structural engineering from 
and a master's degree in structural engineering from , he has not provided support for 
why these degrees are comparable to the listed criteria. Similarly, the record contains recommendation 
letters from Assistant Professor of Philosophy at from Dean 
of Students at . and from Counsellor. These letters attest to the -
Petitioner's membership on the Diamond Team at and his academic successes, but they do not 
demonstrate comparable eligibility to the standards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), or comparable evidence establishing his eligibility. Thus, we do not 
need to fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d 
at 1119-20.4 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
4 We note that the Petitioner's appeal brief includes a discussion of case law relating to how eligibility should be detennined 
once initial evidentiary requirements are met. Here, as the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidentiary requirements, 
we need not address these argument s. 
Matter of W-M-E-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofW-M-E-, ID# 1410339 (AAO Apr. 30, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-, INC. Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: APR. 30, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an architecture and engineering firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary, a senior 
electrical engineer and project manager, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had only established that the Beneficiary met one of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that the Beneficiary meets three 
criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is a 
major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including 
items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an architecture and engineering firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary, a senior 
electrical engineer and project manager, as an individual of extraordinary ability. As the record does 
not establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director held that the Petitioner had only established that the Beneficiary met the judging criterion 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the 
criteria for awards, membership, original contributions of major significance, scholarly articles, 
leading or critical role, and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix). Here, 
we conclude that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the criteria for judging, 
scholarly articles, and high salary. 
Specifically, the record reflects that the Beneficiary has judged the work of others in having conducted 
reviews of professional engineering continuing education courses. He has published scholarly articles 
in the Electrical Construction & Maintenance Journal and in the PE Magazine, a publication of the 
National Society of Professional Engineers. And the record contains sufficient documentation from 
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to establish that he commands a high salary in relation to others in 
2 
..
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
the field. Accordingly, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets the requisite initial evidence, we will 
evaluate whether it has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he 
has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The Beneficiary is a senior engineer and project manager for the Petitioner. The record shows that he 
received his bachelor's degree in electronics and telecommunications from the University of m 
India m 2005. He received his master's degree in electrical engineering from 
in 2007. As mentioned above, he meets the criteria for judging, scholarly articles, 
and high salary. At issue is whether the record establishes that he is one of that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of his field and that he has sustained national or international acclaim under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Director noted that the Beneficiary has won several awards, concluding that they did not satisfy 
the criterion because they were limited to students and early career professionals and did not receive 
national or international recognition. On appeal, the Petitioner has not challenged this conclusion. 
Instead, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not address two awards called the Young Engineer 
of the Year Award in the response to the Director's request for evidence. One of these awards was 
given by the ~~-~-- ' and the other was given 
by the 
Here, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that these awards resulted in national or 
international acclaim to the Beneficiary. The award issued by the is a state-specific award, 
and the record does not contain additional evidence establishing that the Beneficiary received national 
or international acclaim for receiving it. While the Young Engineer Award is awarded by a 
national society, the record does not show that this fact alone establishes national or international 
acclaim. The record contains an announcement about this award in the Albany Business Review and 
on the _ College of Engineering and Computer Science website, but these do not 
appear to be publications that are indicative of national or international acclaim. The Petitioner has 
not submitted sufficient evidence of the acclaim connected to this award to meet the requirements of 
this classification , such as press coverage of a national or international level or other documentation. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner references the criteria relating to the Beneficiary 's awards, membership, contributions of major 
significance , and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (viii). We will consider the evidence 
relating to these criteria in our final merits determination as we assess whether the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
3 
.
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights the Beneficiary's membership in but it has not been 
established how this membership has resulted in his national or international acclaim. The record 
contains a letter from Ph.D., the executive director of welcoming the 
Beneficiary to which he identifies as "[t]he Scientific Research Society." He indicates that 
throughout the organization's more than 120 years of history, "scientists and engineers from a wide 
range of disciplines-including over 200 Nobel Laureates-have united ... as companions in zealous 
research." Therefore, he states, ' membership connects [ a member] to both a global scientific 
network and a venerable scientific legacy." While the Beneficiary's membership in is 
notable, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how it is indicative of one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the top of the field. 
The Petitioner references letters from colleagues and other engineers in the record regarding the 
Beneficiary's contributions in the field. 2 While these letters discuss the Beneficiary's contributions 
in certain projects, showing how highly regarded he is among those who have worked with him, this 
evidence does not establish that he has national or international acclaim in the field. For example, 
senior electrical engineer at ,, discusses the 
Beneficiary's work on a railway freight line, stating, "[i]n the nation, there are not many electrical 
engineers who can design a railway electrical system network." further highlights the 
Beneficiary's design of solar-powered hazard beacons for the aviation industry in Vermont, indicating 
that it was "a significant improvement over existing designs" that "greatly reduced maintenance 
costs." While we note the Beneficiary's successes in these fields, the Petitioner has not shown that 
this resulted in national or international acclaim to the Beneficiary. 
Similarly, regional office manager for Inc., discusses several projects 
that the Beneficiary has been involved in, specifically noting his expertise in designing electrical 
systems for hazardous fuel line environments. We acknowledge the Beneficiary's skill set in his 
industry, but the record has not shown that he has received national or international acclaim for his 
work on these projects. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's contributions as a member of the 
. the 
record contains a letter from , a member of the 
discussing the Beneficiary's work in improving standards. 
He states that he recruited the Beneficiary to take part in developing the a 
standard for estimating costs which "is used by power-oriented engineers , particularly by those who 
design large, complicated systems." The letter further indicates that the Beneficiary is now the co­
chair of the group working on the prospective standard, but the record lacks evidence explaining the 
significance of the his role and how it shows sustained national or international acclaim or recognition 
of his achievements that place him at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
.
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary has published scholarly material, but the Petitioner 
has not shown that two articles published approximately 10 years prior to the filing of the petition is 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's leading or critical role in its organization has 
resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. the Petitioner's senior principal 
and owner, states that the Beneficiary has been "instrumental in [the Petitioner's] ability to grow its 
office, increase profits and create employment opportunities for American workers." Mr. 
states that the Beneficiary designed and managed projects exceeding $4 million, which accounted 
for 15 percent of the Petitioner's total billings for fiscal year 2015. The Petitioner also asserts that due 
to the Beneficiary's work, the company has grown its office from 7 to 14 full-time employees. 
While these are notable accomplishments, the record does not show how these successes have resulted 
in national or international acclaim. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Finally, although the Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary earns a high salary in relation to 
others in the field. While this may demonstrate some degree ofrecognition of his achievements in the 
field, he has not submitted evidence showing his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the top of the field. 
In summary, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field and that he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim 
or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover , the 
record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international 
acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings , it is 
5 
Matter ofS-, Inc. 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of S-, Inc., ID# 2149550 (AAO Apr. 30, 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5589947 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a horse owner and breeder in dressage and jumping, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not received a major, internationally recognized award, and satisfied only two of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(5)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-)(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated that he is owner and president of,__ ______ ____, in I lcanada. 
Because the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicated on his Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, and 
accompanying letter that he would be filing a brief and additional evidence to our office within 30 
days. However, as of the date of this decision, we have received nothing further. Accordingly, the 
record is considered complete as it now stands. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On his Form I-290B, the Petitioner generally asserts that he received a major, 
internationally recognized award and, in the alternative, meets at least three criteria. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he garnered a 
major, internationally recognized award or satisfies the requirements of any other previously claimed 
criteria. Moreover, although we agree with the Director that the Petitioner received a nationally 
recognized horse owner award for excellence, we do not concur with the Director's decision regarding 
the published material criterion, discussed later. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The Petitioner initiall claimed that his horse received the "Historic Highest Dressage 
Score" at the in 2005, two gold medals at thd I 
,__ _____ ~Games in 2010 and 2014, and a bronze medal at the I I Games in 2011, 
thereby all constituting one-time achievements. In response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner only argued eligibility for the "Historic Highest Dressage Score" at I I 
The Director thoroughly and sufficiently addressed the arguments and reviewed the submitted 
documentation, finding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the "Historic Highest Dressage 
Score," as well as the previously claimed awards, qualified as a major, internationally recognized 
2 
award consistent with the regulation 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and legislative history. Specifically, the 
Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that the dressage score award enjoyed the same 
level of attention or stature similar to other major, internationally recognized awards, such as the Nobel 
Prize, Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic Medal. 1 In addition, the Director indicated 
that the "Olympics include equestrian events such as dressage; however, the evidence in the record 
does not place the I I on the same level as an Olympic event." Further, the Director cited to the 
official website of the U.S. Equestrian Federation and determined that "the website does not appear to 
accord the I I with a level of recognition as one of the top events for the sport on par with the 
Olympics or others such global events." 
Based on Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have 
risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one­
time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying 
as major, internationally recognized awards. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he won 
any of the awards; rather the horses and riders received them. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed 
above, we concur with the Director's assessment of the record and conclusion that the Petitioner did 
not receive a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserted that he met this criterion based on his horses,I I and~I ---~ 
registration with the I I Moreover, he claimed that 
the horses participated on national teams competing at the I I Games andl I 
Games. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association 
is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 2 
The Director found that the Petitioner's assertions referred to the horses' memberships rather than to 
the Petitioner. We agree. The evidence provided by the Petitioner does not reflect that he is a member 
ofl I or that he competed on a national team. 
Moreover, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that I I requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
1 The House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement. See H.R. Rep. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19. 1990). reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
We also concur with the Director's finding. Although the Petitioner submitted the rules for stallion 
performance tests of the German riding horse breeds and licensing for the horses, he did not establish 
how this evidence relates to I l Regardless, as indicated by the Petitioner, stallion licensing 
requires minimum age, color, lineage, veterinary examination, and pedigree verification. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how these requirements are tantamount to outstanding achievements, nor are 
they judged by recognized national or international experts. Further, the Petitioner did not present any 
evidence reflecting that competing on national teams, which he did not, at thel I Games 
and I !Games requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
Accordingly, we concur with the Director's decision, and the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying material 
and explaining his determination. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well 
as the title, date, and author of the material. 3 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we will withdraw the findings 
of the Director for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on 12 articles. In his 
initial cover letter, the Petitioner indicated the names of the authors for six of the articles, listed 
"unknown" for five of the articles, and "contractor" for one article. However, only four of the articles 
contain the authors: Sidelines, sun-sentinel.com, equisearch.com, and horsedaily.com. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner listed the photo credits as the authors for HorseSport USA and 
equestrianconnection.com. The inclusion of the authors is not optional but a regulatory requirement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any of the articles reflect published material about 
him relating to his work. Instead, the articles mention the Petitioner as the owner of horses, but the 
articles are not about him. Rather, the articles are about horses and equestrian events and competitions. 
For instance, the Sidelines article is about the horse,I I Although he provided quotes about the 
horse, the article is not about the Petitioner. Further, the sun-sentinel.com article is mainly about 
another horse's performance at the I !Equestrian Club with the Petitioner briefl] noted 
one time as the owner of I I Similarly, the equisearch.com article covers the I Horse 
Show with the Petitioner indicated once as the owner of1 I Likewise, the horsedaily.com 
article discusses the I I Dressage with the Petitioner referenced one time as the owner of 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
4 
.__ __ _,[ 4 Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro­
Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that 
articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that the articles appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. He did not provide any documentation relating to HorseSport 
USA. 5 As it relates to sun-sentinel.com, the Petitioner submitted a screenshot from sun-sentinal.com's 
website asserting that it has 20.1 million average monthly page views and 3 million average unique 
visitors. However, the Petitioner did not offer any independent, objective evidence to support the 
website's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga 
v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) 
( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not 
reliant evidence of a major medium). 
Moreover, regarding Sidelines, the Petitioner presented figures from rankw.org reflecting that 
sidelinesnews.com has 313 visitors per day and ranked 1,624,991 among websites. However, the 
Petitioner did not show that the article was posted on sidelinesnews.com rather than published in 
Sidelines. Further, the record does not contain information relating to Sidelines as a professional or 
major trade publication or other major medium. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted average daily visitors, rankings, and percentiles of global Internet 
users from HypeStat for the remaining articles: equisearch.com (4,498, 129,697th, 0%), 
equestrianconnection.com (892, 438,770th, 0%), horsedaily.com (743, 496,152nd, 0%), 
equestrianmag.com (510, 634,554th, 0%), and floridahorse.com (273, l,032,795th, 0%).6 However, 
the Petitioner did not show the significance of the statistics and rankings and how such data reflects 
status major media. 7 Further, based on the low figures, rankings, and percentiles, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate that any of the websites are tantamount to major media. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Initially, the Petitioner contended that his "horse, I ,I has made a contribution of major 
significance to Competitive Dressage: I I set a Historic Highest Dressage Score at the 
intensely competitive I I" In response to the Director's RFEr the Petitioner claimed that he 
"owned four championship horses: I ll I }and]I O f, 
4 Although we discuss a sampling of articles, we have reviewed and considered each one. Again, the articles discuss horses 
and equestrian events with the Petitioner barely mentioned. 
5 The Petitioner claimed in his initial cover letter that circulation information was "not available." 
6 The Petitioner provided two articles from horsedaily.com, two articles from equestrianmag.com, and three articles from 
floridahorse.com. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
and his "horse, I J helped facilitate the career ofl I World Champion Dressage 
Rider." In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 
For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
Again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner claims that his horses have made original contributions by 
winning equestrian events. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the horses' successes 
are his original contributions of major significance; the Petitioner attributes the horses' achievements 
as his own. Here, the Petitioner did not show that the act of owning horses, even horses who achieve 
successes, establishes original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not establish how the accomplishments of the horses 
rise to the level of major significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. The Petitioner, for 
example, did not demonstrate how winning an equestrian competition is automatically majorly 
significant, nor are we persuaded that winning any dressage event qualifies as an original contribution 
of major significance. Here, the Petitioner did not show the significance in the field of the awards of 
I 11 11 I andl I For instance, the Petitioner did not indicate how 
any of the horses' successes distinguish them from other horses in the field who have had successes 
in equestrian competitions and events. 
Similarly, regarding I Is hjgherit dressage score at D the accomplishment relates to the 
horse rather to the Petitioned received the highest dressage score rather than the Petitioner. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate howl Is receiving the highest dressage score at~ reflects a contribution of major significance in the overall field. While the highest dressage 
score may be notable at D, the Petitioner did not show the major significance of the score in the 
greater field rather than limited to a single equestrian event. 9 
~ the Petitioner asserted that his "horse,I I helped facilitate the career of I I 
L_______..,JWorld Champion Dressage Rider." Again, the Petitioner creditsl I for facilitating 
1.-----~--.l,s career rather than his own contributions. Nonetheless, the record contains a letter from 
I I who praised the Petitioner who "has an exceptional eye for horses that can compete in 
show jumping or global dressage" and "brought [his] career to all new heights." Although! I 
credits the Petitioner for his personal accomplishments, the letter does not show how the Petitioner 
has made original contributions of major significance in the overall field. Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish how his influence on I I resulted in majorly significant contributions in the field as 
a whole.10 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing that letters which specifically aiticulate how 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed that his "horses have completed at equestrian competitions across the 
globe," and "[his] horses' display their artistic ability -strength, power and eleganr -at eve}s 
equestrian competition." In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner referenced~---~s 
letter as comparable evidence to meeting this criterion pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that his 
work was on display, and the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases.11 
The Director stated: 
USCIS notes that this criterion is for fields of endeavor for which artistic works are 
created which are displayed in exhibitions or showcases. Equestrian dressage, or more 
specifically owning and breeding horses for dressage, does not meet this criterion. In 
addition, athletic events are not artistic showcases. Further, it is not apparent that any 
artistic work which might be displayed is the [Petitioner's] work product. While the 
evidence documents the [Petitioner's] involvement in the breeding process, the 
petitioner has not shown that the [Petitioner] was the rider and trainer of the horses. 
We concur with the Director's findings. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he displayed his 
work at equestrian competitions through owning and breeding horses as opposed to riders and trainers. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that equestrian competitions involve artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 
Furthermore, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed 
criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 12 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).13 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not 
probative and should be discounted. 14 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add value; on the other 
hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion); see also 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 
15 (D.C. Dist. 1990) (finding that USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements). 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
12 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
7 
Here, the Petitioner did not show why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. The 
fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not meet at least three criteria is not evidence 
that a horse owner and breeder could not do so. In fact, the Petitioner claimed to meet six other criteria. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not explain or establish howl I letter is "truly comparable" to 
the display criterion. 15 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion, including through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner initially asserted his eligibility because he "established a distinguished reputation" and 
"[t]hrough his work as a horse owner and breeder, [he] has been noticed and worked alongside 
accomplished individuals in the field of equestrian sports." In addition, he submitted letters 
confirming the riding, training, breeding of his horses. In response to the Director's RFE, the 
Petitioner claimed that he "performed in a leading or critical role for the equestrian ( dressage/jumping) 
community" and providedl Is riding record. 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he "performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." (emphasis 
added). As correctly pointed out by the Director, the Petitioner did not establish that he qualifies as 
an "organization" or "establishment." Moreover, the Director determined that "[t]he equestrian 
community as a whole is not an organization or establishment" and "being a diverse group of 
participants at various levels of talent and interest," do not have a distinguished reputation. As the 
Petitioner has not identified a distinguished organization or establishment in which he performed in a 
leading or critical role, we agree with the Director's findings. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner claimed that he is highly compensated from the sale of horse semen. The record reflects 
that the Petitioner submitted receipts from his business selling horse semen ranging from $2,100 -
$5,000 per unit. In addition, he presented an article from vocative.com indicating "an average price 
of $873 per dose, with the most expensive horse semen costing $6,500." In order to meet this criterion, 
a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid 
to others working in the field.16 Here, the Petitioner's evidence shows the amount that his business 
charged for horse semen rather than the amount he commanded for services. Moreover, while the 
article establishes that his business charged more than the average per dose, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the remuneration was significantly high as evidenced by the $6,500 per dose 
indicated in the vocative.com article. 
is Id. 
16 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
8 
Similarly, the Petitioner asserted that his horse farm business "has managed to accumulate over 100 
times the average income of the median income for horse owning households." The Petitioner 
submitted a letter from a certified public accountant and financial statements for his business from 
2011 -2012. In addition, he provided documentation from the American Horse Council Foundation 
reflecting the median income for horse owning households. However, the Petitioner did not establish 
his earnings rather than his business' finances. Moreover, the comparison of a horse business to a 
horse owning household does not demonstrate that the Petitioner commanded a high salary in relation 
to others. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has experience in owning 
and breeding horses, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 16949516 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , d I artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(5)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-)(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner indicates employment as ~ I artist. Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and display at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will not disturb the Director's findings relating to those 
criteria.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets one additional criterion. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. 2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she satisfies the 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to four other evidentiary 
criteria, membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), original contributions of major significance at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), leading or critical roles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commercial successes in the 
performing arts at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), respectively, but did not satisfy these criteria. The Petitioner does not contest 
these issues on appeal and therefore we deem them to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
(BIA 2009). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
eligibility requirements of this criterion based on four claimed interviews of her onl I television 
shows. The Petitioner submitted YouTube screenshots of a video from the show I I 
which was broadcasted od I TV onl I 201 7, Y ouTube screenshots of a video from the 
show I I which was broadcasted onl I TV on I ,I 201 7, and Y ouTube 
screenshots of a video from the show I I' which was broadcasted onl I 
Television 1 onl 12019. The Petitioner provided transcriptions of those videos suggesting 
published material about her relating to her work. Although she also argues that she satisfies this 
criterion based on a claimed interview of her cof ducted on the show I I and 
broadcasted onl ITV inl I o~~---~2019, she did not provide a transcription of the 
interview demonstrating published material about her relating to her work. 
The Director determined that this evidence did not satisfy the requirements of the criterion because 
"screen prints and transcripts of televised interviews do not meet the plain language in the regulations 
as being 'published material,"' and, nevertheless, the record did not establish that the TV networks on 
which they were broadcasted were a major medium. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director's interpretation of this criterion was too restrictive. 3 We agree. The issue is whether the 
aforementioned television shows [enresent a maioJ' medium. Here, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the shows.__ ______ ___. .__ ____ ___.' or I l(epreser a major medium.4 
Although the Petitioner provided television ratings for channels in the documentation 
submitted did not establish that these television shows constitute a major medium. In addition, the 
English translations of the above transcripts are not accompanied by a copy of the foreign-language 
transcripts or the required certification from the translator. 5 
Finally, the Petitioner argued that her evidence should also be considered as comparable evidence 
because "[t]here is no professional or major trade publications in the field ofl I 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to her occupation. 6 A petitioner should explain why she has not submitted evidence that 
would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the 
evidence she has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 7 General 
assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative 
and should be discounted. 8 Here, the Petitioner did not show why she cannot offer evidence that meets 
3 The Petitioner submits a non-precedent decision concerning a photographer who petitioned under this classification, 
noting that "[i]n this case, the AAO considered a television [show] as media but determined that petitioner did not meet 
this criterion because she failed to prove her 'appearances on the shows."' This decision was not published as a precedent 
and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions 
apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence 
in the record of proceedings. the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Here, the translations contain the typed statement, 
"Sworn interpreter and translator for Courts," the interpreter's name and telephone number. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
7 Id. 
8 Id. 
3 
at least three criteria. The fact that the Petitioner provided documentation that does not meet at least 
three criteria is not evidence that a ~------~artist could not do so. In fact, the Petitioner 
claimed to meet six other criteria. For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
she fulfills this criterion, including through the submission of comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 30, 2024 In Re: 30354710 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hockey referee, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or meeting at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a hockey referee who has officiated games at the national and international levels. 
He states that he intends to continue working as a hockey referee in the United States, and to establish 
a hockey school for children. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to his leading or critical role for organizations or establishments 
with a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets five additional 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude the he has not 
established that he meets the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to meet this criterion, an individual must establish that they are a member of associations in 
their field ofclaimed extraordinary ability. In addition, they must show that these associations require 
that their members have outstanding achievements, and that those achievements were judged to be 
outstanding by recognized national and international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
The Director concluded in her decision that while the Petitioner established his membership in the Ice 
Hockey Federation of the Republic of Belarus (IHFRB), he did not show that this association requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that he is a member of 
2 
IHFRB as well as "a member of Belarus national ice hockey team ofjudges and referees." In support 
of the second of these claims, he refers to one of several letters in the record from V-R-, an official 
with the IHFRB, which goes through the steps to becoming an internationally-licensed hockey referee. 
Although V-R-states in this letter that the progression to this level requires "endorsement of the 
national federation," there is no indication that an internationally-licensed referee is part of a national 
team ofreferees as the Petitioner asserts. Rather, the letter focuses on the path an individual must take 
to achieve this level in their career. 
In addition, an article from the website www.belarushockey.com names several referees from Belarus, 
including the Petitioner, who were selected to work at youth world championship tournaments, but 
does not state that they will work together as part of a team of referees from Belarus, unlike hockey 
athletes who are selected for national teams. While athletes (and potentially coaches) who are 
members of national teams for the purposes of international competition may meet the requirements 
of this criterion, provided that the teams require outstanding achievements of their members, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he is a member of a national team. 
Regarding the Petitioner's claim to this criterion based upon his membership in the IHFRB, we note 
that he did not respond to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) with additional evidence about 
that association's membership requirements. He renews this claim in his appeal, but the Petitioner 
does not explain his disagreement with the Director's decision on this point or refer to specific 
evidence supporting his claim. We therefore agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
has not shown that his membership in the IHFRB required outstanding achievements. 
For the reasons stated above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This criterion requires that an individual have served as a judge of the work of others, either in their 
field of expertise or in an allied field of specialization. Here, the record includes ample evidence that 
the Petitioner has officiated several hockey games as either a linesman or head referee. However, the 
Director noted that the evidence did not show that the Petitioner judged the work of others in his field 
in this role, but instead enforced the rules of the game and ensured sportsmanlike competition. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner refers to two letters from V-R-which describe the duties of a hockey 
referee, as well as the IHFRB 's official rule book and sections from the Belorussian statute regarding 
sports. The first letter dated July 31, 2023 states that referees are responsible for rule enforcement, 
game management, and penalty assessment among other duties, and is generally consistent with the 
rule book and statute concerning the duties of referees. However, none of these duties involve an 
evaluation of the skill or athleticism or other aspects of the work of the hockey players, who could be 
considered to be engaged in an allied field ofspecialization. And while the letter indicates that referees 
submit post-game reports which document incidents, penalties, and player ejections, it does not state 
that these reports include any evaluation of the work of the referees. 
3 
A second letter from V-R-with the same date reiterates many of the same points as the first discussed 
above regarding the duties of a hockey referee, but adds that the Petitioner served as an "inspector 
(supervisor) ofjudges on ice" during the 2020/2021 and 2021 /2022 seasons. The letter provides details 
about the Petitioner's duties in this role, including observing referees, evaluating their ice skating 
skills, physical fitness, and knowledge and application of hockey rules, and providing feedback to the 
referees during the game. However, the letter does not provide details about the events at which the 
Petitioner performed these duties, such as in which league or age group the games were, the level of 
the referees being judged, the number of games at which the Petitioner performed these duties, or 
specific dates of those games. Further, we note that none of the other materials submitted, including 
the sections of the IHFRB rule book, the Belarus statute regarding sports, and individual game reports 
noting the names and positions ofthe officiating crews, mention the position ofinspector or supervisor. 
Also, none ofV-R-'s other letters, or those written by several other of the Petitioner's colleagues and 
acquaintances, mention his work in this capacity. 
Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more 
or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held 
that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter ofS-A-, 
22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not only 
encourage, but require the introduction ofcorroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where 
available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need 
for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
Given the lack of detail in V-R-'s letter about when, where, and who the Petitioner judged, and the 
lack of documentary evidence to support the statements made in the letter, the record does not 
sufficiently establish that he participated as a judge of the work of others in his field. He has therefore 
not shown that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, an individual must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, an 
individual may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner on appeal refers to several of our previous decisions for the proposition that reference 
letters are among the types of evidence that may support a conclusion that an individual meets this 
criterion. But these decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS 
officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Unpublished agency decisions and advisory 
legal opinions, such as the Lawrence Weinig letter to which the Petitioner also refers, are not binding, 
even when they are published in private publications or widely circulated. R.L. Inv. Ltd Partners v. 
INS, 86 F. Supp. 2d 1014, 1022 (D. Haw. 2000), aff'd, 273 F.3d 874 (9th Cir. 2001). As the Petitioner 
notes, however, we will consider detailed reference letters which are specific in identifying any 
contributions made by an individual and provide examples of how those contributions were of 
significance to the individual's field. 
4 
Here, the Petitioner lists the reference letters submitted by his colleagues, acquaintances, and 
employers, but does not identify an original contribution he has made to the field ofhockey officiating 
that has been of major significance. Likewise, the authors of the letters mainly describe his duties as 
a referee or his performance in this role without specifying any impact or influence this work has had 
on the broader field. For example, U-R-, a fellow referee, praises the Petitioner's work as a referee in 
a single game in an Olympic qualifying tournament, but does not suggest that his actions in this game 
had any influence beyond the game. Another fellow referee, M-S-, describes the Petitioner's career 
as a referee, beginning with officiating children's hockey, and then states that his "exceptional 
achievements and original contributions have made him a true leader and innovator in his field." But 
M-S-does not identify any of these original contributions, or explain why he considers the Petitioner 
to be an innovator. In addition, repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990. This is also seen in the letter from V-K-, who uses the word 
"contribution" on three occasions in his letter without providing any detail about any contributions or 
their impact on the field of hockey officiating. 
Several of the reference letters mention that the Petitioner has trained and mentored new referees, but 
only the previously mentioned letter from V-R-goes into any detail on this potential contribution. As 
we stated above, the letter is short on details regarding the timing, frequency, and level of these 
training/mentoring activities. It also includes statements regarding the impact of these activities, such 
as that the Petitioner's post-game reports "contributed to the broader development and enhancement 
ofofficiating standards within the league," and that they "became vital documents in shaping the future 
of officiating in the league." But the letter does not identify specific officiating standards or rules 
which were introduced or improved directly due to the Petitioner's work, or otherwise demonstrate 
that this work remarkably impacted or influenced the field. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that because hockey is a popular sport in his home country and 
he holds an international referee license, his "contributions as a judge and referee are of major 
significance in Belarus." But the Petitioner misinterprets the requirements of this criterion in making 
this assertion, as the focus is on original contributions that are of major significance to his field of 
endeavor, not to the general population of his native country. Further, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that performing his duties as a hockey referee has contributed to the field of hockey, 
whether in Belarus or at the international level. 
Finally, the Petitioner points out that he received a "Letter of Gratitude" from thel I 
for his work in its 2014/2015 Championship Season. But this is a form letter sent 
to many individuals, as can be seen in its expression of thanks for work "no matter at which category 
or level." The letter is solely meant to congratulate the group of hockey officials who served during 
this period on their work, and makes no mention of any individual contribution by the Petitioner. 
Per the above discussion, the record does not establish that the Petitioner has made contributions of 
major significance to his field, and thus he does not meet this criterion. 
5 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
To meet this criterion, an individual must submit evidence that their work was on display at an 
exhibition or showcase, and that the nature of that exhibition or showcase was artistic. The Director 
determined in her decision that the Petitioner's work as a referee in hockey games did not constitute a 
display of his work at an artistic exhibition or showcase, as the nature of the games was competitive. 
She also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown, per the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
regarding comparable evidence, that this criterion does not readily apply to his occupation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to two of our previous decisions concerning comparable evidence, one 
in which we determined that performing artists could qualify under this criterion through comparable 
evidence, and another concerning whether the comparable evidence provision could be applied to a 
single criteria. As we noted above, non-precedent decisions are not binding in future adjudications. 
In addition, the Petitioner is not a performing artist, and the Director did not decline to consider the 
Petitioner's assertion about comparable evidence based on its application to a single evidentiary 
criterion. 
For comparable evidence to be considered, a petitioner must first show that a criterion does not readily 
apply to their occupation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The Petitioner asserts that the Director did not 
consider his statement that this criterion does not apply to his occupation because he is not an artist. 
But an unsupported assertion is not sufficient to demonstrate that an evidentiary criterion does not 
apply to a particular occupation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Also, even if we were to conclude that this criterion does not readily 
apply to the Petitioner's occupation, he has not demonstrated that the evidence of his work as a hockey 
referee is comparable to an artistic exhibition or showcase. While the definition of an exhibition 
includes a public display of athletic skill, it is the skill of the athletes, not the rule-enforcing skill of 
the officiating crew, that is on display in a hockey game. Id. 
For all ofthe reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although he claims that he is eligible under an 
additional criteria on appeal, relating to published material about him and his work at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(3)(3)(iii), we need not reach this additional ground because the Petitioner is unable to meet the 
minimum of three evidentiary criteria. Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the 
Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve his appellate arguments regarding this 
additional criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not 
required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
As the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidence requirements of the requested classification, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( I )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: APR. 30, 2024 In Re: 30681108 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief executive officer in the artificial intelligence (Al) technology and mobile 
telecommunications industry, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification as set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
A noncitizen 1s eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation . 
• They seek to enter the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; 
and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383,394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Here, because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner demonstrated he has performed in 
leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation and therefore satisfied 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports this determination. 
The Director concluded, however that the Petitioner either did not claim or did not establish that he 
met any additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
meets at least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for the requested classification. He contends that 
the Director overlooked or disregarded certain evidence and applied requirements that are not 
indicated by the regulations or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services policy. Upon review, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has met at least two additional criteria. 
First, the record supports the Petitioner assertion that the Director overlooked evidence that he has 
authored scholarly articles published in the journals IEEE Circuits and Systems and Signal Processing. 
Based on this evidence, the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Second, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of patents, letters from experts in his 
field, and contracts related to the usage of his patented technologies as evidence that that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director 
determined that the Petitioner had made original contributions in his field based on the patents he 
received for AI technology but did not demonstrate that such contributions were ofmajor significance. 
In reaching this conclusion, the Director observed that the submitted letters from industry experts 
"read as an overview of the petitioner's career" but "did not include any direct evidence of his work 
outside ofhis previous employers or his own company." The Director further found that the submitted 
contracts for the use of the Petitioner's technologies "speak to the financial success of the Petitioner's 
company but fall short of establishing that his work is of major significance." The Director observed 
that "corporate profit is not a contribution of major significance in the field." 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director mischaracterized the content of the submitted letters 
from experts in his field and inappropriately discounted evidence demonstrating his patented 
technologies are in commercial use. He emphasizes that USCIS policy guidance specifically states 
that "evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention 
or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original contribution to the field." 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The 
Petitioner also submits additional letters from experts in his field, as well as new contracts and 
purchase orders between his company and (a major telecommunications company) for his 
patented AI technology. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the previously submitted letters addressed the significance 
of his contributions and did not, as determined by the Director, merely summarize his employment 
history. The expert letters consistently explain that the Petitioner's patented AI technologies will allow 
for the automation of mobile network operation, noting that this technology which will enable small 
and medium-sized enterprises to build and manage their own private mobile networks, which provide 
increased efficiency and data security at a lower cost. The previously submitted evidence also 
indicates that the Petitioner has worked in partnership with to implement Hong Kong's first end­
to-end fully managed "zero touch operation" private 5G service. Additional letters from experts 
submitted on appeal add further context to the significance of the Petitioner's patented AI 
technologies, their current and potential applications, and their influence in the field, as evidenced by 
the citation of his work in subsequent patent applications filed by a Google subsidiary. Upon review 
of this and other relevant evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
With eligibility under these two additional criteria, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of his 
petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. USCIS must now 
determine whether the record establishes the sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top 
of his field. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety to make 
a final merits determination. The final merits determination should weigh the evidence submitted in 
support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), any other relevant 
evidence in the record, and the Petitioner's claims and evidence on appeal. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 