U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20738613 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 1, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner had not established his intent to continue work in his area 
expertise in the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361.1 Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
1 See also Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010), in which we held that, "truth is to be determined not 
by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality." 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act requires "the alien to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability." In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states that "the 
petition must be accompanied by clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United States to 
continue work in the area of expertise."2 The record reflects that as part of the request for evidence, 
the Director instructed the Petitioner to submit evidence relating to his intent to continue work in the 
United States. Specifically, the Director stated: 
You must show how you will continue working in the United States in the claimed area 
of expertise. The record does not demonstrate that you have prearranged commitments 
for working in this field. Therefore, please submit evidence that you are coming to the 
United States to continue working in the field in which you claim to have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim. Evidence that may be submitted to satisfy 
this requirement includes, but is not limited to, letters from current or prospective 
employers, employment contracts, and a statement from you detailing plans on how 
you intend to continue work in the United States. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that "[t]hough requested, you did not submit evidence 
showing that you would continue to work in the U.S. in your area of claimed expertise." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief addressing only one of the two grounds for the Director's 
denial. Specifically, the Petitioner only contends that he satisfied eight categories of evidence, 
including through comparable evidence, and the totality of the evidence shows his sustained national 
2 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policymanual (providing that to qualify as a person 
of extraordinary ability, the beneficiary must intend to continue work in the area of his or her expertise). 
2 
or international acclaim. He does not address or dispute the Director's decision regarding his intent 
to continue work in his area expertise in the United States. 
Accordingly, we will not address this uncontested ground on appeal, and we deem it to be waived. If 
the affected party does not address issues raised by the director, and those issues are dispositive of the 
case, the appeal will be dismissed based on those waived issues. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's 
appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding the 
Petitioner's satisfaction of the categories of evidence. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) 
("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary 
to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate his intent to continue work in his area of expertise in the United 
States. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an 
independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 01, 2023 In Re: 27573483 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a technical program manager in the field ofdata storage, seeks classification as an alien 
ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by meeting at 
least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he has expertise in the are of data storage technologies, and that he intends 
to continue to work in this area in the United States with his current employer. The record shows that 
he has several years ofexperience in this field, particularly in the role ofa technical program manager 
with responsibility over sales, marketing, and technical functions for data storage products. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner meets two of 
the evidentiary criteria, relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and a leading or critical role for 
organizations with a distinguished reputation. Because he concluded that the Petitioner did not meet 
two additional criteria that he claimed, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the 
classification's initial evidentiary requirements, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner notes that although the Director stated in his request for evidence (RFE) that 
the Petitioner met a third criterion, pertaining to his participation as a judge of the work of others in 
his field, this criterion was not considered in the Director's decision. The Petitioner also asserts that 
the letters from experts in his field sufficiently established that he has made original contributions of 
major significance to his field of expertise. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted several types of evidence in support of this criterion, including emailed 
invitations to review manuscripts submitted to journals and invitations to serve as an advisory board 
2 
member for start-up companies. However, the plain language of the regulation requires evidence of 
participation as a judge of the work of others, and evidence of an invitation to participate as a judge 
does not meet that requirement. In addition, the Petitioner has not established that even if he had 
accepted these invitations, they would qualify as judging the work of others in the same or allied field 
as his, data storage. For example, two of the invitations are from the journal IEEE Potentials and do 
not appear to be related to data storage technologies. 
The Petitioner also submitted an email from the editor of International Journal of Information 
Management, thanking him for reviewing an article on data governance and security. Based on this 
evidence, the Petitioner has established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In his decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner meets this criterion. Based upon the evidence 
ofthe Petitioner's authorship ofarticles published in scientific journals such as Applied Physics Letters 
and Materials Science in Semiconductor Processing, we agree. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played either a leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment, or a division or department thereof. In addition, they must show 
that that organization, establishment, department, or division has or had a distinguished reputation. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets this criterion, but did not provide an analysis of the 
evidence. We first note that the evidence includes information about the reputation ofthe Petitioner's 
current and former employers, .___________ ____. but not about the reputation of the 
department or divisions of those employers in which he worked. As this evidence shows that both of 
those companies have a distinguished reputation, we will therefore determine whether the Petitioner's 
roles are or were leading or critical for those establishments as a whole. 
The evidence regarding the Petitioner's role at I !consists oftwo letters from executives 
of the company, who discuss his role as OEM Segment Lead for I ~ 
Although this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner played a leading role for I I Iin this position, it does show that he performed in a critical role for the company. In this role, 
the Petitioner was responsible for business management, product development, sales, and marketing 
of the company's enterprise solid state storage products, and was credited with "more than $1 B worth 
of design wins." The evidence demonstrates that as a key player for the company's data storage 
business, the Petitioner played a critical role for I I We therefore agree with the 
Director's conclusion that he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has established that he meets the initial evidence requirement for classification as an 
individual ofextraordinary ability by meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and has therefore 
overcome the basis for the denial ofhis petition. However, as noted above, meeting the initial evidence 
3 
requirement does not suffice to establish eligibility for this classification. On remand, the Director 
must conduct a final merits determination, weighing the totality of the evidence to determine whether 
the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the 
very top ofthe field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In doing so, the Director should consider evidence submitted in support of 
all ofthe evidentiary criteria claimed by the Petitioner, including those not addressed in this decision. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. When reviewing the letters written by experts in the field, the Director should consider the 
sufficiency of statements regarding contributions and innovations made by the Petitioner which are 
not otherwise supported in the record. The Director's review should also consider the evidence 
submitted in support of the Petitioner's appeal. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As the Petitioner has overcome the basis for the denial of his petition, we remand this matter for the 
Director to consider the totality of the record in a final merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 2, 2023 In Re: 27572282 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Exceptional Ability) 
The Petitioner, a medical doctor who researches rare diseases, seeks classification under the 
employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(1 )(A). This category requires petitioners to demonstrate sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognition of their achievements in their fields of expertise through extensive 
documentation . Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than required. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that, in her field, the Director overlooked proof of her satisfaction of other evidentiary 
criteria, including : receipt of national awards for excellence; membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievement; and original, scientific contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 589 (BIA 1988) (citation omitted). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated original, scientific contributions of major 
significance to her field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision. Because the 
Director did not make a final merits determination as to whether the Petitioner established 
extraordinary ability in the field, we will also remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 1 
I. LAW 
To qualify for the requested immigrant visa category, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
1 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b)(l), (2). We do not find her personal 
appearance necessary to resolve this matter. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) . Ifa petitioner meets either of these initial evidentiary requirements , U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) then determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements that demonstrate a 
noncitizen's ranking among the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an Indian native and citizen, is a licensed 
physician who works in the United States as 
a clinical assistant professor at a medical school and a doctor at a hospital. She also independently 
researches rare diseases lacking treatment protocols. In 2016, she successfully self-petitioned in the 
employment-based, second-preference (EB-2) immigrant visa category, earning a "national interest" 
waiver of the category's job-offer requirement. See section 203(b )(2)(B)(ii) of the Act. 2 
The Petitioner does not claim -nor does the record indicate -her receipt ofa major international award. 
She must therefore meet at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Director found that, in the Petitioner's field, she demonstrated her participation as a judge of 
others' work and as an author of scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). She asserts 
further qualifications in the field as a: recipient of national awards for excellence; member of 
associations requiring achievements that recognized national or international experts judged to be 
outstanding; and provider of original contributions of major significance . See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v). 
Contrary to the Director's decision, we find sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's "original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Under this criterion, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has made 
original contributions in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2) App'x, 
www.uscis.gov/policy -manual. Ifso, the Agency then considers the contributions' significance . Id. 
Contributions do not necessarily have major significance just because they are original. Id. A 
petitioner must submit evidence of their importance, such as their generation of widespread 
commentary, notice from others working in the field, or citations. Id. 
The Petitioner contends that her research on rare diseases constitutes original contributions in her field. 
She says these contributions have major significance because other clinicians use her research as "de 
facto guidelines" in treating rare diseases. 
2 Noncitizen physicians may receive national interest waivers in the EB-2 category if: they qualify as members of the 
professions holding advanced degrees or noncitizens of"exceptional ability;" agree to work full-time as physicians in areas 
lacking health care professionals or at U.S. veterans hospitals; and federal agencies or state health departments find their 
proposed work to be "in the public interest." Sections 203(b)(2)(A), (B) of the Act. 
2 
-----------The record establishes the Petitioner's ori inal contributions to the field. Evidence shows her 
discoveries, for exam le, that a previously ignored contaminant, can cause 
infection and that, ____ -a cancer medication, causes infection-like symptoms in some patients . 
The Director, however, concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her original 
contributions have major significance. The Director faulted evidence that her published research 
articles had been downloaded from the Internet more than 40,000 times. The Director noted that, 
without evidence of the downloads' purposes, their number does not establish the significance of the 
Petitioner's work. 
The Director acknowledged letters from other physicians praising the Petitioner's original research. 
But the Director stated: "None of the letters specifically articulate how the petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field as a whole, nor provide specific analysis of the impact of any 
contributions on subsequent work." The Director found that the record lacks examples of "real world 
applications" that benefited from the Petitioner's work and are widely accepted in the field. 
The Director, however, overlooked evidence of the significance of the Petitioner's original 
contributions . We acknowledge that the number ofresearch article downloads was not probative . But 
she submitted other documentation demonstrating that, since 2017, her 34 published aiiicles have 
generated more than 120 citations from researchers, including one article with 17 citations. This and 
other evidence shows that her original research has significance. 
Also, letters from other doctors indicate that the importance of the Petitioner's original research is 
substantial. A German professor of nuclear medicine praised the Petitioner's research on 
and other "contaminants." The professor stated that the Petitioner's 
treatment protocols for these newly discovered infectants "vastly improve the chances of successful 
treatment of such rare infections in patients worldwide ." The professor also noted that, in discovering I I link to periaortitis, an inflammatory condition typically affecting the abdominal aorta, 
the Petitioner used PET (positron emission tomography) scans to diagnose inflammation . The 
professor stated: "These findings help radiologists increase differential diagnosis whenever features 
of periaortitis are found." 
Further, a doctor at l !Hospital stated that the Petitioner's original research on rare 
diseases "helps prevent misdiagnosis leading to increased healthcare and legal costs." The doctor also 
stated that the Petitioner's research has proved the efficacy ofnext-generation DNA ( deoxyribonucleic 
acid) sequencing and PCR (polymerase chain reaction) testing in diagnosing infections from rare 
pathogens and unusual presentations of common pathogens in hospital settings. 
Thus, contrary to the Director's decision, we find that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated 
original scientific contributions to her field of major significance. Because she meets at least three of 
the 10 initial evidentiary standards, we need not review the Director's findings regarding her claimed 
receipt of national awards for excellence in the field and membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements in the field. See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their decisions); see also 
Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach an alternative appellate 
issue where an applicant did not otherwise qualify for the requested relief). 
3 
The Director did not consider whether the Petitioner has received sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognition of her achievements sufficient to demonstrate extraordinary ability in her 
field. Because we decline to make this final merits determination in the first instance, we will remand 
the matter. 
On remand, the Director should review the entire record and determine whether the Petitioner has 
established herself among the small percentage who have risen to the very top ofher field of endeavor. 
The Director should then enter a new decision. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner met the preliminary evidentiary requirements of the requested immigrant visa category. 
USCIS must now determine whether she has demonstrated extraordinary ability in her field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 02, 2023 In Re: 27098134 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a long-distance runner, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )( 1)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate she meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or in the alternative, by submitting evidence that 
meets at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further 
determined that the Petitioner did not establish she seeks to continue work in her area of extraordinary 
ability. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act makes visas available to noncitizens who: 
• have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, 
• seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area ofextraordinary ability, and 
• will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a long-distance runner who primarily competes in marathon and half-marathon 
events. She indicates her intent to continue to train for and compete in long-distance events at the elite 
level in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner claimed that she could meet the initial evidence requirements based on her receipt of a 
major internationally recognized award. She also submitted evidence relating to four ofthe ten criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements of their members; 
• (iii), Published material about her and her work; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to demonstrate that she 
had a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or that she met any 
ofthe four claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director's 
decision ignored probative evidence in the record, failed to give evidentiary weight to credible 
documentation, and applied erroneous legal standards in evaluating these criteria. After reviewing all 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Director applied incorrect standards and failed to 
consider relevant evidence with respect to several criteria. Based on these deficiencies, we will 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires evidence of a petitioner's receipt oflesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. At the time of filin the Petitioner 
provided evidence ofher first-place finishes in the 2019 and 2020 Run, the 2019 IMarathon, the 2020I I Half-Marathon, and the 2019~---~Marathon, 
2 I 
among other events. She provided official race results confirming her top placement among large 
fields of competitors at these events, as well as media coverage of the events and her victories. In 
evaluating this criterion, the Director did not mention any ofthe specific events in which the Petitioner 
was a top finisher. The decision noted the Petitioner's "receipt of marathon completion/participation 
certificates" and her submission of"marathon results webpages," observing that such evidence is "not 
considered [ evidence of] receipts of prizes or awards" because it "simply recognizes an individual 
who participated and/or finished a marathon, including where they finished compared to other 
participants." The Director did not farther explain why such evidence did not establish the Petitioner's 
receipt of awards or prizes in her sport or why the official race results were deemed irrelevant. We 
conclude that the Petitioner met her burden to demonstrate her first-place finishes in the above-listed 
races and established her receipt of the damed awards or prizes. 
Further, although the record contains supporting documentation such as media articles relating to the 
events and the Petitioner's top finishes, the Director was dismissive of this evidence in evaluating 
whether she established that her awards meet the "nationally or internationall reco nized" element 
of this criterion. For example, she submitted evidence that the annual Run 
receives considerable international media coverage, while the ~----~Marathon was featured 
by publications such as theI I Chronicle, Outside, and Runners World. The record also 
indicates that thel IMarathon has been designated by USA Track and Field (USA TF) as 
a qualifying event for the Boston Marathon and the Olympic Team Trials and is therefore considered 
a significant race among elite runners. 
The Director deemed the articles not probative because the Petitioner did not establish that they were 
published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, a requirement that does 
not appear in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The Director similarly appeared to require 
the Petitioner to establish she has received awards that are "coveted by all distinguished marathon 
runners, evincing your national or international recognition in the field." However, the first step of 
the evidentiary review of an extraordinary ability petition should be limited to determining whether 
the evidence submitted with the petition satisfies the plain language of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115. This limited determination does not require an 
assessment of whether the evidence is also indicative of a petitioner's sustained national or 
international acclaim or recognition. On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence 
submitted under this criterion, as well as evidence provided in support of the Petitioner's claim that 
she has received a major, internationally recognized award or prize. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's claim that she is a member of associations in her field that require 
outstanding achievements of their members under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Director's decision 
does not acknowledge the supplemental evidence she provided in response to a request for evidence 
(RFE) and therefore appears to be based on an incomplete review of the record. As the matter will be 
remanded, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires evidence ofpublished material about an individual 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for 
which classification is sought. The Petitioner submitted dozens of exhibits in support of this criterion 
at the time of filing and additional evidence in response to the RFE. The Director concluded that none 
of the submitted articles were published in a professional or major trade publications or other major 
3 
media, but the decision does not reflect that the Director fully reviewed the evidence in reaching this 
conclusion. For instance, while the decision correctly indicated that user-edited websites such as 
Wikipedia are not reliable primary sources of information, the Petitioner did not significantly rely on 
user-edited or other potentially unreliable websites to support her claims. Further, the Director made 
statements suggesting that all submitted articles from online sources were deemed to be unreliable and 
were not given any evidentiary weight under this criterion. The Director specifically stated that "[t]he 
record lacks evidence that online sites constitute major media or a professional or major trade 
magazine," notwithstanding the Petitioner's submission of online articles published by newspapers 
and magazines such as thel !Chronicle and Runners World. The Director did not provide 
sufficient explanation for the blanket rejection of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion 
and is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence on remand. 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not address the evidence she submitted with any specificity and instead summarily 
concluded that the evidence was insufficient because it was limited to solicited letters from persons 
who coach her or are otherwise acquainted with her. The Petitioner emphasizes that the submitted 
letters, some ofwhich were from independent experts, were intended to be read in the context of other 
evidence relating to her contributions to her sport and asserts the Director did not consider the evidence 
in its totality. We agree, and further note that the decision does not acknowledge the Petitioner's 
specific claimed original contributions to her field as articulated in the record. As the decision only 
vaguely referenced "letters" in the analysis of this criterion, without discussing the content of the 
letters or any other documentation provided, the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims 
and all supporting evidence when evaluating this criterion on remand. 
An officer must fully explain the specific reasons for denying a visa pet1t10n. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). Here, for the reasons discussed above, the Director's decision did not adequately 
explain the reasons for denial. As such, the Petitioner was not provided a fair opportunity to contest 
the decision. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully 
explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to 
challenge the determination on appeal). 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief: which further addresses the previously submitted evidence. In addition, 
the Director should review the Petitioner's appellate arguments pertaining to the Petitioner's intent to 
continue working in her area of extraordinary ability in the United States as required by the statute and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), before issuing a new decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner 
received a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national 
4 
or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 02, 2023 In Re: 27773464 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pastry chef, seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by submitting 
evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recogrnt10n of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastry chef who intends to continue working as such in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that they meet 
four evidentiary criteria. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
Petitioner does not meet at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and therefore does not meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification. 
As explained by the Director in his request for evidence (RFE) and his decision, any document in a 
foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner 
did not submit a properly certified English language translation of any of the foreign language 
documents in the record, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate 
and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
1 The Petitioner does not reassert her claim to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) relating to commercial success 
in the performing arts. We consider this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 
2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the 
court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
I The Petitioner submitted an article posted to the website of a television station reporting on news inIRussia, ww~ IThe article consists of an interview of the Petitioner about her 
training and work as a pastry chef in the United States. In his decision, the Director first noted that 
this article, which was submitted in English, was not accompanied by a certification from a translator. 
In addition, the Director noted that this material was not accompanied by evidence that this website 
qualifies as either a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Evidence of 
published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications 
about the Petitioner should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other 
circulation statistics and show who the intended audience ofthe publication is, as well as the title, date 
and author of the material. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices Tab. 
On appeal, Petitioner's counsel refers to the RFE response, in which he referred to site traffic statistics 
about the www] !website claimed to have been obtained from the website of SimilarWeb Ltd. 
However, assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 
534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter ofRamirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503,506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's 
statements must be substantiated in the record with independent evidence, which may include affidavits 
and declarations. Here, the record lacks such evidence. As the Petitioner submitted no other evidence to 
support her claim that the website qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media, we agree with the Director's conclusion that she has not shown that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been ofmajor significance in 
the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner submitted several letters from her former employers which generally praised her work, 
but which the Director concluded were insufficient to show that she meets this criterion. In her appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not adequately consider this evidence. We disagree. The 
Director reviewed each of the letters in his decision and explained that none of them showed that the 
Petitioner had made a contribution of major significance to the field of pastry and chocolate 
preparation and cooking. In her brief: the Petitioner points to a letter from her most recent employer 
stating that the newest items on the restaurant's dessert menu are her creations, but she does not explain 
or refer to evidence showing that this contribution to her employer's dessert menu was of major 
significance to her field. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that 
contributions which were not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer do not meet this criterion). As 
explained by the Director, the other letters similarly describe the Petitioner's work in a positive light, 
but do not suggest that her work remarkably impacted or influenced other pastry chefs. We therefore 
agree with the Director and conclude that this evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
3 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria, and thus does 
not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Although she claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to a leading or critical 
role for organizations with a distinguished reputation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(ix), we 
need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.2 Accordingly, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that they are one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 2, 2024 In Re: 32502755 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Taekwon-Do athlete, seeks classification under the employment-based, first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Petitioners 
in this category may ultimately apply for U.S. permanent residence if they demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" and document recognition of their achievements in their fields of 
expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
show the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics as demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation ; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows the Petitioner, a Kyrgyzstan native and citizen, is a Taekwon-Do (martial arts) 
athlete, who started competing in martial arts events in 2010 (at the age of fifteen). The Petitioner 
asserts that since that time he has accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which 
have been recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The petition was filed on December 
9, 2022. Thus, the record must establish that he met the requisite three criteria as ofthat date. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b)(1 ). The Petitioner claims throughout this proceeding that he satisfies four of these criteria: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor (awards) 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
(membership) 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media (published 
material) 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field of specification 
for which classification is sought (judging) 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only two of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), membership and judging. On appeal, the Petitioner does not assert, nor 
does the record establish that he met any of the other six criteria beyond those identified above by the 
Petitioner. When dismissing an appeal, we generally do not address issues that are not raised with 
specificity on appeal. Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these criteria 
in our decision. Issues or claims that are not raised on appeal are deemed to be "waived." See, e.g., 
Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 
658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not established that he 
satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. 
Evidence ofthe person's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied.field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
2 
The Director denied the petition, but also concluded without further explanation that the Petitioner 
met the judging criterion. For the following reasons, we withdraw the Director's determination that 
the Petitioner met this criterion. 1 
The Petitioner initially submitted a certificate, accompanied by an English translation, which 
recognizes him "for his help in judging" at the 20181 Ichampionship 
organized and officiated by the International Taekwon-Do Federation (ITF). The Director issued a 
request for evidence (RFE) asking for additional evidence about the nature of the Petitioner's judging 
activities at this event, such as the work that the Petitioner judged, the skill level of the participants, 
how he was invited to participate in the judging activity, evidence of being selected, and evidence 
conveying the event(s) where the judging occurred. 
In response, the Petitioner provided an additional copy ofthe initially submitted certificate, and offered 
the following information that was already included on the certificate itself, noting that the event was 
held from I in 2018 in the city ofl Iin Kyrgyzstan, and that the Petitioner was 
awarded the certificate for his help in judging during the ITF's ___________ 
Championship. 
Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner's provision ofthe certificate recognizing 
him for "his help in judging" at this three-day event, without additional supporting documentation and 
explanation about the specifics of the judging activities he performed there, is insufficient to 
demonstrate that he has met the plain language of the judging criterion. Though requested by the 
Director, the Petitioner has not offered evidence adequate to establish that he served as a judge of the 
work of others in his field, such as the level of the participants who were competing at the events he 
"helped" judge, how or whether he was selected to act as an official ITF judge at these events, or the 
nature of the specific competitive events he judged. Failure to submit requested evidence which 
precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the [petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(l4). 
In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by 
its quality. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. Without more, the record does not offer 
sufficient evidence to show the judging services the Petitioner provided, if any, while he was helping 
with judging during this event. This criterion has not been met. 
Evidence ofpublished material about the individual in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for which 
class[fication is sought. Such evidence must include the title, date, and author ofthe 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
1 We will not disturb the Director's determination that the Petitioner met the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Evidence of 
published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that the 
circulation (online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l) (criterion 6), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual ( discussing circulation or viewership ). 
The Director determined that although the Petitioner submitted an interview article and documentation 
about his appearance on a TV show, he provided insufficient evidence to establish that the publications 
occured in professional or major trade publications or other major media, or that they met other aspects 
ofthe plain language requirements for this criterion. The Petitioner asserts that in denying the petition, 
the Director acted capriciously by determining that [he] did not establish this criterion." But other 
than generally disagreeing with the Director's conclusions about this criterion, the Petitioner has not 
adequately explained why he believes the Director "acted capriciously." Here, the record shows that 
the Director considered and discussed the evidence provided, and gave a reasoned explanation 
regarding why this evidence did not establish the Petitioner's eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that barakelde.org (B-), a Kyrgzstan website, qualifies as major 
media. The article, ___________________ was published on B-. As 
evidence that B-qualifies as major media he submitted a 2011 article published by an organization, 
Media Policy Institute at media.kg, noting that B-had experienced a "boom" in viewership in 2011 
and is "part of the media holding [group] AKI press [A-]." 
To begin with, the 2011 article discussing B-'s viewership statistics predates the publishing of the 
Petitioner's interview article by a decade. The Petitioner has not provided documentation relevant to 
B-' s viewship statistics contemporaneous to 2021 when the article was published. Thus, the 
viewership statistics presented in the 2011 article do not sufficiently illustrate B-'s standing as major 
media in 2021. 
We note that even if this article did provide adequate statistics about B-' s viewership in 2021, the 
article maintains that "[B-] is the largest newsportal in the country," but it did not provide comparative 
statistics for other media outlets operating therein to substantiate this assertion. For instance, the 
article notes that its "review ofother sites also indicates a serious surge in interest in 'Kyrgyz" content, 
but it did not identify the names and viewership statistics of these other media websites, nor did the 
article address the circulation size and readership aspects of other media formats offering news in the 
country, such as newspapers and magazines. Absent relevant information about other media outlets 
operating in the country, the evidence provided falls short in demonstrating that B-is a major media 
outlet. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that B-"is the Kyrgz language website of [A-]. He points to A-'s 
previously submited 2020 press release in which A-announces that it "has become the leading news 
agency in the Kyrgyz Republic and one of the largest in Centeral Asia." While A-'s self-reporting 
press release discusses the countries that A-covers, and states that it "generates 500-600 unique news 
[items] per day," the press release does not acknowledge that B-is part of its media group nor does it 
provided a comparative analysis of B-' s viewership performance relative to other media outlets 
offering news across the Kyrgzstan Republic, or regionally in Central Asia where A-offers news 
4 
coverage. Without comparative statistical evidence describing the circulation and viewershop of the 
media outlets operating in the country relevant to the timeframe in which this article was published, 
the Director did not meet his burden to establish that B-qualified as major media in 2021. 
The Director also noted that the plain language ofthis criterion requires the identification ofthe author 
of a published article about a petitioner, and concluded that since the article simply listed the author 
as 'The Sport," this article did not meet this criterion because the author was not identified. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We agree that evidence does not identify the author ofthis article and does not meet 
the plain langauge requirements of this criterion for this additional reason. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts that the Director erred in determining that "his participation in 
the morning show ofI I on the NTS TV Network [N-]" does not qualify as published material 
about him. We disagree. As previously discussed, to meet this criterion the published material must 
be about the Petitioner and related to his specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 
The record contains a 2023 letter from an individual said to be employed by N-as a "traffic manager." 
While, the trafffic manager indicates that in 2019 the Petitioner "took part in the live broadcast of the 
[N-] TV channel program I I as a guest and discussed his achievements with our TV hosts," 
he does not explain how he came to have knowledge of the Petitioner's participation in this TV show 
and the content of the discussions that occurred during the broadcast. The Petitioner has not provided 
transcripts of this broadcast or other evidence to establish the topics covered with the Petitioner during 
the show. Therefore, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence adequate to subtantiate his assertion 
that he appeared on this show, and that the show was broadcast to discuss or otherwise showcase the 
Petitioner's work in the marital arts field. 
The Petitioner also provided three pages from N-' s website which include pictures of N-' s building 
and a discussion about N-'s broadcasting history, but he has not offered sufficient evidence to show 
this broadcasting organization qualifies as major media. For these reasons, the evidence about the 
Petitioner's claimed 2019 appearance on TV does not meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also suggests that we should consider this evidence as "comparable 
evidence." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses comparable evidence and allows a 
petitioner the opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish their eligibility, if USCIS 
determines that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's occupation. See id. A petitioner 
should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See id. Here, the Petitioner does not offer evidence or narrative discussing 
how the standard criteria do not readily apply to his occupation to support his contention that the 
comparable evidence clause applies in this matter. 
This criterion has not been met. 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the two evidentiary criteria discussed above. 
As such, the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) cannot change 
the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will not address this remaining issue. See INS 
5 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofD­
L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for the handful of individuals at 
the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
the required sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of his field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6337235 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 3, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief operating officer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director "erred in his decision as he applied "a far higher 
evidentiary standard than the preponderance of the probabilities" whereas the Director "needs only to 
find that it is more likely than not that she is an individual of extraordinary ability." She argues that 
the evidence submitted with the instant petition "made a strong prima facie case of eligibility" not 
only because the Director determined that she met two of the initial evidentiary criteria, but also due 
to "the Service's prior finding that three virtually identical criteria are satisfied (by approving [her] 
existing 0-1 A petition.)" 1 
We note that the record indicates that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. However, this does not preclude 
users from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after users 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
1 The Petitioner also argues that the Director ened because he '\vrongly states" that the Petitioner "holds an O-lB visa and 
that mere nominations for awards are sufficient for her 0-1 status," and "apparently conflates the O-lB criteria applicable 
to the arts with the O-IA criteria applicable to the sciences." This argument is inapposite here. While the Director 
inconectly lists the Petitioner as providing evidence that she holds an O-IB visa, the matter before him was whether the 
Petitioner submitted evidence sufficient to establish her eligibility for classification as an immigrant of extraordinary 
ability, not as a nonimmigrant of extraordinary ability. The Director's decision correctly evaluated the evidence in the 
record to determine if it met the requirements for the classification sought. 
2 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petlt10n. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
She further asserts on appeal that the record establishes that she has satisfied the requisite three initial 
evidentiary criteria, and she has therefore demonstrated her eligibility to be classified as an alien of 
extraordinaiy ability. Specifically, the Petitioner references Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. 
Mich. 1994) in noting, "[t]he Buletini court's precise language regarding what must happen next once 
at least three criteria are satisfied is illuminating." She then quotes the following from Buletini: "the 
alien must be deemed to have extraordinary ability unless the INS sets forth specific and substantiated 
reasons for its finding that the alien, despite having satisfied the criteria, does not meet the 
extraordinary ability standard."2 
We note, however, that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United 
states disti·ict court in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 
(BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration 
when it is properly before us; however the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. 
Id. At 719. 
Regardless, the above quote from Buletini indicates that the court considered the possibility that a 
petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria and still not meet the extraordinary ability 
standard if USC IS provides specific and substantiated reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 
F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject at any time the concept of examining the quality 
of the evidence presented. Specifically, the court in Buletini acknowledged, "the examiner must 
evaluate the quality, including the credibility, of the evidence presented to determine if it, in fact, 
satisfies the criteria." Id. As discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner has established that 
she satisfies three of the initial evidentiary criteria. However, for the foregoing reasons, we do not 
find that this alone establishes her eligibility for the classification sought. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging and to scholarly articles. We agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner satisfies these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, 
published material, original contributions, and leading or critical role. 3 After reviewing all of the 
2 In addition to Buletini, the Petitioner cites Muni v INS 891 F Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995), Racine v. INS 995 U.S. Dist. 
LEXIS 4336, 1995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), and Gulen v. Chernoff 1980 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 54607 (E.D. Pa. 
Jul 16, 2008), as having "held that having met the required evidentiary burden of proof, plaintiffs were eligible as aliens 
of extraordinary ability, absent any evidence to the contrary." We note that each of these district court cases predates 
Kazarian. Further, as discussed, we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a district court. 
3 The Director determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not meet the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)() 
3 
evidence in the record, we find that the record supports a conclusion that she meets a third criterion, 
as discussed below. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she served in a leading role as the chief operating officer ofl I ~--~1-4 The Director determined that she did not meet this criterion as the evidence submitted by 
Petitioner did not "contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how [her] 
role fo~ I or former employer was leading or critical." He further determined that "the 
evidence does not indicate that the organizations or establishments for which [she had] claimed to 
perform in leading or critical roles have a distinguished reputation." We disagree and will withdraw 
the Director's finding in this matter for the following reasons. 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is ( or was) a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 5 The 
Petitioner submits evidence, such as her executed employment agreement listing appropriate matching 
duties and a letter from I ~'s chief executive officer confirming that she was a co-founder of that 
entity, establishing that she has performed in a leading role. 6 
Regarding I ts distinguished reputation, 7 the record reflects that it is a com an that has been 
marked by excellence as indicated b its selection as a 2017 and as a 
company-in residence at th L------r------,_ ___ ----1 .,_ __ ___.device incubator. In a 
letter of recommendation in the record the vice president of venture investments at I l describes th ~--.=======-.award as "the I I industry's I I I Competition for transformativel I." She states, "[s]uch an award refl-ec_t_s_o_n_t.,.-h_e_. 
importance of the business opportunity, but even more so on the quality of the founders." The record 
further reflects that I I was one of 19 companies selected globally in the 20171 I 
competition. 
The record also demonstrates tha s selection as a company-in-residence aD was based upon 
its reputation for excellence. Both 's chief executive officer, andl I ~-------~ 
because, while evidence in the record established her membership in several associations, it did not demonstrate that these 
associations require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national of international experts 
in her field. The Petitioner does not contest that determination on appeal, and so we consider her to have abandoned her 
claim that she meets this c1iterion. Accordingly, we will not address whether she does so here. However, we will address 
evidence submitted regarding this criterion in the final merits dete_~rm_in....;.a;.;_ti...;;.o_n.'------~ 
4 We note that the Petitioner also references her employment withl.~-----, I As she has established that she 
meets this criterion, we will address evidence related to her role with! . ._ ______ _.tTri'"the final merits determination. 
5 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /v-.·ww. uscis. gov /poli cymanual/HTML/P olicyManual.html. 
6 We note that the record also contains a July 2018 ,,._do_c=u=m=e=n~t=ti=tl=ed=I~-------------~--~ I I appointing the Petitioner as the entity'~ f "to serve 
in such a capacity until her successor is duly elected and qualified or until her earlier resignation or removal.'' However, 
this document is not executed, and it is unclear from the record whether she assumed this position. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 11 (noting that Webster's online dictionary defines 
distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence.) 
4 
.__ __ __,,--.......... i=;ts founder, confirm this in letters of recommendation in the record. I l 
states that ........ _ ..... was offered this position after being evaluated for and scoring highly on "the I r 
benefit offered by [its] I I the business potential of the company, and the excellence of the 
founding team."I lstates thatD"only admit[s] companies that we believe will be worth 
our time and capital" and thatl I "definitely belongs in that category," having "already benefited 
frmp .. a .... q.umber of highly desired grants." Further, letters of recommendation in the record demonstrate 
thaL..Jenjoys a well-respected reputation; by extension! l's selection as a compan -in-residence 
in a top-tier incubator reflects the enti 's distinguished re utation. Fo.=r~ex=a=m==le~---~~ 
describesOas a "to -tier com an m " while ........ ______ ~ the 
director of the ........ ____________ ~ describes it as "a highly respected incubator." 
Accordingly, the record shows, by the preponderance of the evidence, that I I holds a 
distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has established that she has performed in a leading role for 
an establishment having a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's 
finding that she does not meet this criterion. 
As we note above, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that she meets three additional criteria. However, 
as she has established that she already satisfies three criteria, we need not address whether she meets 
the others, but we will consider the evidence submitted as part of the final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119--20. 8 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The Petitioner holds a doctorate from thel I College I I and was a postdoctoral fellow at 
the.c=:J University! I She was previously the chief operating officer 
forL_j and has indicated that she intends to remain in the United States to continue to work as 
the company's chief executive officer. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within her field, authored scholarly articles, and 
performed in a leading role. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her achievements reflect 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101--723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). 
x See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
5 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.9 The record 
reflects that she has reviewed scholarly articles appearing in the Annals of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Journal of the Royal Society Inteiface, and in Medical Engineering & Physics. Participating as 
an editor does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinaiy ability and sustained 
national or international acclaim at the ve1y top of her field. The Petitioner does not provide evidence 
demonstrating that she garnered wide attention from the field for her reviews. 
Likewise, chairing conference sessions and reviewing presentations and applications in the field of 
endeavor does not automatically place one at the top of one's field. Here, the Petitioner provides 
cmrespondence thanking her for her work as a first-round reviewer for the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 
I IF ellowships and evaluator of the I ~ presentations for an 
undergraduate course in bioengineering at I I University. She includes letters of 
recommendation and conference materials confirmin that she served as co-chair of a session on 
biomedical engineering education at the 2017L.._ ____ r----------,...J nnual Meeting, as 
well as correspondence showing that she was a reviewer fo~------- candidates at theO 
and a recruitment interviewer for · correspondence 
confirming her roles as a lecturer a University' s.L..---r-----,,------_Jand as a graduate 
teaching assistant and student supervisor at~~-~ ollege~-~ 
While this evidence confirms her participation in each of these roles, it does not show how her work 
in these positions compares to others in her field or otherwise sets her apart from them. For example, 
in his letter of recommendation! I notes that "her work has been recognized by the I I 
where [the Petitioner] ha1 been asked to fu)fijj a co-chairing ro)e at their 2017 
Annual Meeting." In his recommendatµm..J.ette{, Is director of 
professional development for northern l__Jstates "[n]ot only did [the Petitioner] help with our 
recruitin" events, she also acted as an interviewer for first-and second-round interviews in our I office." The letters do not provide specific examples showing how the Petitioner's service 
in these roles sets her apart from others in the field or demonstrating how she has been recognized in 
the field for these achievements. Therefore, this evidence is insufficient to establish that her sustained 
national or international acclaim. The Petitioner does not provide additional documentation 
demonstrating that she has been recognized in the field for her experience reviewing candidates or 
chairing conference sessions. Without this evidence, she has not demonstrated that her service as a 
judge indicates that she is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles, the record reflects that she published 
over 15 papers in conference proceedings and peer-reviewed journals and has delivered oral 
presentations at conferences. The citation history or other evidence of the influence of these articles 
can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
9 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have 1isen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that 
other researchers have been influenced by it. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage 
is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
The Petitioner argues that her citation rate establishes her career of acclaimed work as it is comparable 
to or exceeds that that of experts · innovation. She references a letter of 
recommendation in the record fro · fessor at the I I at the University of,__ __ _. in support ~o-f-. -t-h-is_a_s-se_rt_1-.o-n-.--In--h-is~ 
correspondence,! I lists two of the Petitioner's 2013 articles, and notes "[g]iven these 
contributions are relatively recent [ the Petitioner] may not have garnered as many citations yet as other 
top scientists in the field, but this does not reflect the significance of the work described in these 
articles." This confams the importance of the Petitioner's research. However,~ _______ _. 
provides no specific examples of nor explains how her research is important in the field. 10 His letter 
is therefore insufficient to demonstrate that her work has widely impacted the field in a manner that 
indicates she has sustained national or international acclaim in the field of I u, I 
innovation. 
The record also includes Google Scholar documentation for three scientists, including!.__ __ ____. 
I I whom she identifies in her response to the Director's request for evidence as the "top 
scientists in the field." She asserts that her "most cited article in the past 5 years has been cited more 
than the most cited recent work of other top scientist in the field."11 For example, she indicates that 
'--------~'s most-frequently cited article published in 2013 garnered 93 citations in contrast 
with the 126 citations received by her most-frequently cited 2013 article. This demonstrates that her 
work was recognized in the field at a level comparable to that of I I in 2013. 
However, the Petitioner should establish that her work has maintained that level of recognition in order 
to demonstrate that she has enjoyed "sustained" national or international acclaim. 12 Here the Google 
Scholar documentation referenced above indicates that in the years follow in 2013 the Petitioner's 
published articles were not cited at the same rate as those published b For 
example, in contrasting their most cited articles published in 2014, '-------~'s research 
garnered 86 citations, while the Petitioner's research received six citations. The Petitioner does not 
provide evidence showing how this declining number of citations demonstrates that she has maintained 
the level of recognition for her work in a manner consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service in a lrding rle, the record contains numerous letters of 
recommendation discussing her work for both and ~--------_,13 These letters 
'0 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 8-9 (noting that letters that specifically articulate how the 
alien's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value, while letters that 
lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.) 
11 The Petitioner provides this information in the brief accompanying her response to the Director's request for evidence. 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 14 (stating that the adjudicator should bear in mind that 
acclaim must be maintained when determining whether the beneficiaiy has enjoyed "sustained" national or international 
acclaim, and noting that according to Black's Law Dictiona1y, 1585 (9th Ed, 2009), the definition of sustain is "(l) to 
support or maintain, especially over a long period of time; 6. To persist in making (an effort) over a long period of time.") 
13 Although we discuss only a sampling of this conespondence, we have reviewed all of the letters in the record. 
7 
demonstrate the Petitioner's expertise m consulting and '--------~ innovation. The 
correspondence discussing her role atl I identifies the prospective benefits of her service as its 
chief operating officer, rather than acclaim she has already received. I I, chief executive 
officer atl lwrites that his company's success is "unequivocally linked to [its] ability to hire [the 
Petitioner] as an executive within this new and growing company as she possesses the ideal 
combination of technological, clinical, and business knowledge." I I does not point to any 
specific metric of success in his letter, nor does the Petitioner identify such successes and provide 
corroborative documentation. I Is letter references the Petitioner andl land 
notes, "we also believe that the team is truly exceptional in their creativity and inventiveness and has 
the right technical and business capabilities to be successful." Absent detailed examples of the 
Petitioner's achievements and the acclaim she has received for them, this evidence is insufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With regard to her employment at.__ _______ ___, correspondence in the record shows that 
she deve)oned the bJriness acumen as described in the documentation discussed above. 14 For 
example,I notes that "[l]eadership evaluating [the Petitioner's] performance commented 
on her remarkable problem-solving skills," and that she "started leading projects as a I I 
I I Manager, once again testifying to her rapid growth as a business professional." In the 
letter discussed above,I lstates that the Petitioner "has gained invaluable expertise in 
industry as a management consultant withl I where she has helped define the 
marketing and sales strategies of the leading! I and I l companies of the world." I [ notes "[h ]er time as a management consultant andl I trained her 
well in market analysis and it shows in her knowledge of the dynamics that my company will face 
when entering the market with of! ~' While these letters establish the Petitioner's expertise as 
a management consultant for .__ ________ __.~ they lack detailed descriptions of her 
contributions to the entity or specific examples of how the field oj !technology has recognized 
her for them. The record lacks other evidence, such as news articles or other appropriate materials, 
demonstrating that the field ofl I technology has widely recognized her contributions to I I in a manner reflective of sustained acclaim. Without additional evidence 
demonstrating that her work forl I or,__ _______ _. has been widely recognized by or 
has widely impacted her field of endeavor, the Petitioner has not shown that her achievements at these 
companies have received a level of acclaim reflective of one who is among "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner has satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, these materials contribute to but do not establish an overall finding that 
she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her 
field. 
14 The Petitioner also provides information about~------~ and an organization chati which we have 
reviewed but do not discuss here as they are more relevant in a discussion of whether the Petitioner meets the requirements 
of the criterion itself We note, however, that these documents do not demonstrate that the Petitioner has been recognized 
by others in the field. 
8 
With respect to her receipt of nationall or internationall recognized awards, the record reflects that 
the Petitioner received the 2016 Award that her master's thesis was 
awarded first prize by the L _____ .-_________ ___JL...1"_-..u· .J.......:...!.L.L.l.L-.<l.UJLL..LJL.1.<l.1--"'-l.u........;=:.., 
awarded the best oral presentation at the L-------------1------------,1 
Symposium in 2012. Specifically, the record contains the Petitioner's 2016.__ ________ __. 
Award certificate and an article published on lunar.com, the award sponsor's website, identifying I I and one other company as the award recipients. However, the Petitioner does not provide 
evidence showing that lunar.com is widely read or influential in her field such that its publication of 
an article about the award demonstrates that the field has recognized this achievement. 
As it relates to the D award, the Petitioner submits an article discussing this award published at 
Forte.com, a site that "provides management advisory services in the field of industrial marketing." 
Similarly, she does not submit documentation establishing that an article about an award appearing on 
a website providing management adviso] services is indicative of sustained national or international 
acclaim in the field ofl~------~ technology. 
Finally, regarding her 2012 best oral presentation award, the Petitioner provides an article about this 
award appearing in the journal Het Ingenieursblad. However, she submits no evidence of this 
publication's audience or influence within the field. Without evidence showing that this award has 
been widely recognized in her field, the Petitioner has not established that she has received the 
sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. As an additional matter, the Petitioner notes that she also was a 
runner-up for several other prizes but does not demonstrate how being a runner-up is reflective of 
sustained national or international acclaim in her field. 
The record further reflects that the Petitioner has received travel grants, research grants, and 
fellowships in her field. For example, it contains e-mail confirmations that she received travel grants 
various academic conferences and trips. The Petitioner also provides the application requirements for 
and funding confirmations of research grants, such as the I I 
grant and thel I pilot 
grant program, as well as press releases and articles about these grants. Finally, the record includes 
correspondence confirming the Petitioner status as a 2015-2017 honorary fellow of the I I I I Foundation, and a 2016-20171,___ _______________ __._ 
Fellow. This documentation establishes the Petitioner's receipt of these grants and fellowships. 
However, the Petitioner does not provide material demonstrating that she has been widely recognized 
in the field for these achievements. For example, the press releases about her grants are from the 
university's news service, but the Petitioner does not provide evidence establishing the influence of 
the university's news service in her field such that publication there reflects its recognition of her 
achievements. Without evidence demonstrating that she has been recognized in the field for her 
accomplishments, the record is insufficient to establish her sustained national or international acclaim. 
The record also reflects that the Petitioner was 
(Fellowslip) at Te . The Petitioner Trovidel material 
about the such as a printout of the.__ _ _.website; media articles about the and other 
15 The acronym refers to~----------------~ name for this society. 
9 
~ _ __.I graduates, and generally about the importance ofl I centers. With respect to the 
Fellowship itself, the record contains a research article discussing predicted outcomes from 
participation in the Fellowship program and the aforementioned letters of recommendation. The 
research article focuses on predicted outcomes from the Fellowship program and does not differentiate 
the Petitioner from others or show that she has been recognized in the field for her participation. 
The recommendation letters in the record establish the prestige of the Fellowship, but do not provide Bshowing how the Petitioner has garnered acclaim for her recei t of it. For exam le, D 
escribes the Fellowship as "the world-leading program in .----------, "while 
describes it as "an extremely selective program that w,...._.,LU_ ____ --,,___...Jsupport and 
closely watch as it delivers the top I I in today's,__ _____ _. industry." The 
correspondence does not offer detailed examples showing how the Petitioner herself has been widely 
recognized in her field for receiving the Fellowship. The Petitioner does not provide additional 
evidence demonstrating that the field has recognized her accomplishment. Without this evidence, the 
record is insufficient to demonstrate that she has received the sustained national or international 
acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
As it relates to her memberships, the Petitioner provides documentation of her memberships in the 
,__-~~ I ~' thel !Alumni Association, as well as her application to be a 
member of the City & Guilds College Association. However, she does not provide evidence that she 
has received recognition for her memberships. Without this evidence, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that being a member of these associations reflects a level of sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act. 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner submits articles about her related to her work a pearing 
online at~--~-----' aboutforte.com, and mirror.co.uk, and online at News, a I I university news publication, as well as a ranking of colleges includin~ __ __. University. 
As it relates tol ~he Petitioner argues I Is "publications and newsletters, like its 
reputation, have not merely national but global reach." She points to the college ranking list, noting 
tha~ I is ranked fifth, in support of this assertion. However, the I IN ews website on 
indicates that the web site's intended audience is "the campus community, especially trustees, 
administrators, faculty and staff," rather than a national or international audience.16 The Petitioner 
does not provide evidence showing how the publication of an article about her in a medium intended 
for a college community is indicative that she has sustained national or international acclaim in the 
field of medical technology innovation. 
Regarding the articles appearing at.__ _______ _. aboutforte.com, and mirror.co.uk, the 
Petitioner does not submit evidence establishing the influence of these websites within her field of 
endeavor. Without this evidence, the Petitioner has not shown that published material about her 
appearing on them establishes that her achievements have been recognized in her field of endeavor. 
We further note that the Petitioner does not submit evidence showing that the publication of four media 
16 See More About.__ ___ ~-~----------~___,(last visited accessed July 20, 2020) and 
incorporated by reference into the record. 
10 
articles about her reflects a level of recognition consistent with being among "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The remainder of the articles are either about an organization with which she was associated or about 
research that she coauthored rather than about her. For example, the news articles 
'and I 
" focus on the The Petitioner maintains that 
another article, ~------.,,,..--=-------------.,,,..-------=--~ appearing in De Standard 
references a research paper that she coauthored, and thus is about her work. However, she is not 
mentioned in the article, which focuses on the research and quotes the research paper's first author 
extensively. The Petitioner does not show how published material that is not about her demonstrates 
that she has received recognition from the field necessaiy for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
As it relates to her ori inal contributions the Petitioner submits evidence that she developed a new 
treatment of th ~--------------------~ as well as grants, letters of 
recommendation, and a provisional patent application pertaining to this treatment. The patent 
indicates the original nature of this treatment, while the letters of reference and the grants 
documentation demonstrate its continuin development and prospective benefit in the field. 17 
Referencing this ori inal treatment states " The Petitioner's] innovation for the 
treatment of th~--------------------' is truly novel and will represent ~rtant improvement for the almost 5% of the po;ulation who sutler from this condition." D 
L___J notes that D believes that she an~ _ ~ "have a truly novel technology that we 
believe can help those who suffer from I " This, along with the patent, confirms the 
original nature of the Petitioner's treatment. 
However, these letters are insufficient to establish that this contribution has already been widely 
implemented by and recognized in the field. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12); see also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 
49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). In his letter,I lnotes that "the company [the Petitioner] recently co­
founded to further develop this therapy was accepted in to th~ .. and will undoubtedly go on to 
help millions of Americans suffering from this condition," continuing "[the Petitioner's] skillset will 
be instrumental in the company's success." Referencing this same company,! I in his 
letter, notes "the intention of this business is to productize this system for regulatory approval and 
market launch in the next two years." As we note above, the Petitioner must show that she has 
sustained national or international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the field 
of expertise. 18 Evidence demonstrating the prospective benefits of this innovation and awards for its 
continued development is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's contribution has already been 
implemented. The Petitioner does not provide other evidence demonstrating that her original 
contributions have already garnered national or international acclaim. Without this evidence, she has 
17 We have reviewed all of the letters of recommendation in the record, as well as the grants documentation. but discuss 
only a sampling here. 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 14. 
11 
not demonstrated that her original contributions in the field of1 !innovation reflect a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record also contains letters of recommendation and research articles reflecting that the Petitioner 
developed new mathematical models and metrics while completing her graduate studies. For example, 
in her letter of recommendation,! I professor of I I 
engineering at the University I I references the Petitioner's master's thesis and notes " i]n my gb h Petitioner] developed a mathematical model of during 
healing ... work that has applications in engi · and the 
design of novel treatment strategies." As noted above, the record reflects thatLJawarded 
the Petitioner first place for this thesis. While this letter and award show that the Petitioner was 
recognized by these institutions for her work, the record lacks evidence showing that she received 
recognition in the field as a whole for her accomplishments. Therefore the evidence is insufiicient to 
establish her sustained national or international acclaim. 
As it relates to her doctoral research,! I, professor ofl !mechanics at I lcollegel bates that the Petitioner "developed a new metric to capture and analyse the 
multidimensional character of disturbed flow." The record contains scholarly articles authored by the 
Petitioner related to this new metric, along with the previously discussed number of citations for each 
article. 19 These citations establish that others have referenced the Petitioner's research in their own 
work. However, as noted above, the Petitioner does not provide evidence to demonstrate that these 
rates of citation are indicative of a high level of recognition in the field. 
Finally, the record includes one article citing to the Petitioner's earlier research. However, it does not 
identify her or differentiate her work from that of others in a manner indicating that she has received 
sustained national or international acclaim for this research. The record therefore is insufficient to 
suppmi a finding that the Petitioner's graduate research has been implemented or recognized in the 
field in a manner consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the ve1y top 
of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established her extraordinary ability under 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. As such, we need not determine whether she is coming to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(l)(a)(ii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The 
appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
19 We have reviewed all of the articles in the record but discuss only a sampling here. 
12 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4581819 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 3, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physiologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physiologist whose research has focused on using.__ ___ _____,, _____ ___, 
biology to develop new treatments for existing illnesses. The record reflects that he holds a M.S. and 
a Ph.D. in physiology froml I University. At the time of filing he was a visiting professor 
at the University I I' 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging and scholarly articles. The record contains e-mails 
confirming that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer for research articles appearing in 
Environmental Health Perspectives, Scientific Reports, and others. It also reflects that the Petitioner 
has published scholarly articles in professional publications such as Journal of Endocrinology, 
Molecular Therapy: Nucleic Acids, and Cancer Prevention Research. Therefore we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria relating to judging and to scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original 
contributions of major significance. For the reasons discussed below, we find that he does not meet 
this additional regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scient(fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C .F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner had previously been granted H-lB status. 
2 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Director determined that, while the record reflects the Petitioner's work is original in nature, it 
did not sufficiently establish that it was of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
submits a brief, a Google Scholar document containing his citation record, a Thomson/Reuters 
Clarivate Analytics report, and a statement from Thomas/Reuters Analytics discussing skew in 
statistical data. He asserts that the Director did not properly evaluate his citatory data, research papers 
referencing his work, or the advisory letters in the record, according to the requisite burden of proof. 
Specifically, the Petitioner argues that the Director neither fully discussed this evidence nor addressed 
how he weighted it in dete1mining that the record did not establish the Petitioner's eligibility for the 
classification sought. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first references the number of citations his research has garnered as evidence 
that his original contributions have risen to the level of major significance. He notes that "at least six 
of [his] articles have earned more citations than 90 % of other researchers who have published 
in the same field and time period."2 (emphasis in original.) Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of"major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. The Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence establishing that a comparison of his citation rates to an average of others 
in the field establishes the impact of his research. Accordingly he has not shown that his research has 
widely impacted the field in a manner reflecting major significance. 
The Petitioner further argues on appeal that his original research has been of major significance 
because his articles have been published in "top-ranked journals" as reflected by their impact factor, 
such as Leukemia and Cancer Research. A high impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation 
rate. However, the Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating that a publication's high impact 
factor indicates the influence or impact of his research on the field. The Petitioner therefore has not 
demonstrated that publication of his work in highly ranked journals shows that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the publication of his articles in these journals shows that the editors 
of these journals view his original contributions as "majorly significant." However, the record lacks 
evidence corroborating this assertion. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not 
satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), aj)'d, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 
188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
2 We note the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the Director erroneously dismissed these percentiles are based on the 
grounds that the underlying baseline citation rates are frequently skewed. The Petitioner asserts that skew in these rates 
"does not impact the veracity of the data." (emphasis in original). The Thomson-Reuters document presented on appeal 
supports this assertion, stating this skew describes "a natural phenomenon of citation distributions: a few papers receive 
many cites, whereas most papers receive few or no cites" but that these rates "do not factor into the creation of' the 
percentiles, and are provided only for context. We note, as well, that the document indicates that these metrics are an 
evaluation of the "performance of the papers," rather than that of the authors. 
3 
Inc. v. The U.S. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without evidence from the journals' 
editors expressing their opinions on the significance of his work, the Petitioner's unsupported 
statement is not sufficient to show that the editors' selection of his work for publication demonstrates 
its major significance. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that "the major significance of [his] work is also evident from the 
ma1111er in which others in his field have relied on his work" ( emphasis in original) and references the 
ori inal research of others in the record. 3 He references one Post raduate Medical Journal article, 
'-----------~~~----~~----~------------' noting that it identifies 
his work as a one of four "Key references." Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 
1036. Although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to 
establish that the work is of major significance. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic 
symposia or peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary 
or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a 
citation index which cite the alien's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the 
significance of the alien's contributions to the field of endeavor. 4 However, the Petitioner does not 
submit evidence establishing that this one article reflects that his research has provoked widespread 
commentary or has otherwise been widely recognized in the field of physiology. Without this 
evidence, the article is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's research constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance in his field of endeavor. 
The remainder of these research articles in the record do not distinguish the Petitioner's written work 
from the other articles cited or otherwise differentiate him from other researchers. For exam le, the 
article, 
.__ ____________________________ ___, cites to the Petitioner's 
research m conjunction with others without distinguishing him or his research from the other 
researchers. The Petitioner does not provide evidence showing how being cited jointly with the work 
of other researchers indicates that his research has widely impacted the field. Therefore he has not 
demonstrated that his original contributions are of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner further argues on appeal that the frequency with which he is cited in research articles is 
indicative of the major significance of his contributions in the field.5 For example, he notes that his 
work has been cited 11 times in the article '---------------~~---~--' 
" and at least five times in other articles in the record. As '-----------------~ previously noted, publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that 
they were of "major significance." See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036. Further, as discussed above, 
while work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major 
significance. For example, peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed 
3 While we discuss only a sampling of these articles here, we have reviewed all of the research presented in the record. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda. 
5 The Petitioner notes that in his November 2018 response to the Director's request for evidence, he provided articles 
wherein his research was cited 11, 3. 3, 5, 3, 4, 3, and 5 times. 
4 
articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the 
alien's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the alien's 
contributions to the field of endeavor. 6 The Petitioner does not provide evidence establishing how 
being cited 11 or fewer times in research articles demonstrates that his work has provoked widespread 
commentaiy or received notice from others working in the field. Accordingly, he has not provided 
evidence sufficient to demonstrate that his work is of major significance in his field. 
Advisory letters in the record confirm the original nature of the Petitioner's research but are not 
sufficient to establish that these original contributions have been of major significance in the field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value and are not considered to be robative evidence that ma form the basis for meetin 
this criterion. 7 , L-------------------1----,__ ____ __J I I Department of Biology and Biochemistry at the University .__ ___ discusses the 
Petitioner's research into the role of I I reproductive system, noting that he 
" was "one of the first scientists to clone this receptor," and 
.... "_d_f m-o-u-st-rt-t-ed-th_a_t-it_i_s -p-re-s-en_t_i_n-th-e'l==-------,1, I I states that the Petitioner's work 
on howed thatl I reproductive system." He also discusses 
the Petitioner's 2013 General and Comparative Endocrinology article, noting that it "sheds~ 
on the relationship betwee~ [" I I Principal Investigator at thel___J 
Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, discusses the Petitioner's work inl I noting that 
the technique developed by the Petitioner "overcomes the shortcomings associated wit~ I 
therapies for muscle disorders and is therefore of great interest to his field." 
While these letters confirm the originality of the Petitioner's work, they do not provide detailed 
examples showing how it has been widely implemented in or has widely impacted the field of 
physiology or has othe1wise been of major significance in the field. Without additional detail 
explaining his accomplishments as they relate to new or innovative techniques or findings, the letters 
do not establish that the Petitioner's work has widely impacted the field such that it rises to the level 
of major significance. 
Two additional letters do rovide descri tions of how others have built upon his original work in 
research studies. ssociate Professor of Medicine, Division of 
-----~---~University'--------~ addresses the Petitioner's research related to 
~---~and its effectiveness in fighting cancers. He explains the Petitioner "investigated the 
molecular mechanisms behind this effect," referencing a clinical study in Italy in which the 
researchers' "strategy of using '-----------~ as a I I rather than 
was specifically derived ~rom [the P~titioner's] work on this matter." 
._H_e_c-on_c_l_u_d-es-th_a_t_, -as-th_i_s_s_tu__,dy was "able to show thad .... ___ __,) does inhibit growth for certain 
types of tumors," it demonstrates that the Petitioner's research is "leading directly to improvements in 
care for cancer patients." 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9; see also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036 (holding that letters 
that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field 
are insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
~--------~Head ofN euroscience and Director of the at I~-~ 
Un~alaysia, discusses the Petitioner's work on~--~ He notes that a group working for 
the L__J National Research Council "built on [ the Petitioner's] work by investigating I I 
activity in European sea bass," and that the Petitioner's research "influenced researchers ... in their 
study o~~---~~ s impact on the electrical activity of hormone neurons." 
While bothl landl !provide detailed examples showing how the Petitioner's research 
has been used by other researchers, they do not explain or demonstrate how this is indicative that it 
has widely impacted the overall field. 8 In the absence of this additional information, these letters do 
not establish the major significance of the Petitioner's work in the field of physiology. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17977872 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 03, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a competitive swimmer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification through either 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further determined that the Petitioner had 
not established that he would be corning to the United States to continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability, or that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawath e, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a swimmer who competes internationally on behalf of He is a four-time 
Paralympian athlete withOgold medals at the Paralympic Games world championship gold 
medals, and~ medals at thel I Games. The Petitioner has a bachelor's degree in sport 
education frone::=] University I . I and indicates that he intends to continue his career as a 
Paralympic swimmer as well as coach U.S. swimmers with disabilities. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner claimed that his gold medals earned at the Paralympic Games 
demonstrate his receipt of major, internationally recognized awards or prizes and are sufficient to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this classification. He has consistently claimed, in the 
alternative, that he could meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), and submitted evidence relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence, membership in associations that require outstanding achievements, 
published materials about him in major media, and high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), and (ix). 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner's gold medals at the Paralympic 
Games could not satisfy the one-time achievement requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), noting that 
"[t]he only example of a one-time achievement provided in the legislative history is a Nobel Prize." 
The Director also referenced an unpublished decision, observing that the Administrative Alpeals I 
Office (AAO) "dismissed a case where the beneficiary claimed a one-time achievement in the 
Paralympics inl I The Director did not specifically address the additional evidence 
2 
the Petitioner had submitted in response to a request for evidence (RFE) in support of his claim that 
his Paralympic gold medals satisfy the requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
With respect to the alternate evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director 
emphasized that Petitioner initially claimed eligibility solely based on a one-time achievement, but 
acknowledged that his response to the RFE included evidence related to the criteria 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and (ix).1 The Director stated, without farther discussion of this evidence or 
the individual claimed criteria, that "USCIS finds that the beneficiary ... does not meet at least three 
of the ten criteria." 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not provide any legal basis for dismissing his 
argument that his Paralympic gold medals qualify as a one-time achievement consistent with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). He emphasizes that the status and international recognition associated with the 
Paralympic Games has changed drastically in the years since the non-precedent AAO decision 
referenced by the Director was issued and that his arguments and evidence regarding the stature of 
these awards should have been given due consideration. The Petitioner farther maintains that he 
provided "extensive evidence" in support of his argument that he can, in the alternative, meet at least 
three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and that the Director's decision provided no 
explanation as to why the evidence was deemed insufficient. Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director overlooked evidence related to his intent to enter the United States to continue to work in his 
area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertions regarding the deficiencies in the Director's decision. An 
officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not address 
most of the evidence submitted in support of the petition or in response to the RFE. Further, the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner did not provide evidence of his receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award was based, in part, on an AAO decision from 2006 that was not 
published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual 
case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, 
and applicable law and policy. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther review and 
entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should review all evidence submitted to date and 
the Petitioner's claims regarding his eligibility under the criteria set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If 
such evidence is deemed insufficient to establish eligibility, the Director should allow the Petitioner 
an opportunity to submit additional evidence related to the evidentiary criteria and in support of his 
1 As noted above, however, the Petitioner initially claimed eligibility based on his receipt of major, internationally 
recognized prizes or awards, and in the alternative, based on evidence relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(ii) and (iii). Even ifhe had not made such a claim initially, his failure to do so should not have led the Director to disregard 
evidence the Petitioner submitted under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) with his RFE response. 
3 
claim that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his entry will substantially 
benefit the United States. In this regard, we note that the RFE issued prior to the denial of the petition 
was narrowly focused on the Petitioner's awards and did not fully address the other eligibility 
requirements for this classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. If: after review of the evidence 
consistent with the analysis provided above, the Director determines that the Petitioner meets the initial 
evidence requirements, he should then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis, which, if adverse, shall be certified 
to us for review. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9581705 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 4, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, the head of the oil and gas industry portfolio for a major investment bank, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirement of either receiving a major, 
internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that 
his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for the requested classification. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as "Director, Head of Asset Management & Portfolio, Oil and 
Gas" with~----------------~based inl ] Texas. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet six of the ten evidentiary criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (ii) Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (v) Original business-related contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Authorship of scholarly articles in the field; 
• (viii) Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of these criteria, relating to authorship of scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in determining that he did not satisfy the 
criteria relating to membership and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (ix). The Petitioner 
does not contest the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards or original contributions criteria. 
Upon de nova review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met the two criteria discussed 
in the Director's decision. Specifically, the record includes evidence that the Petitioner authored three 
articles published by professional publications, and that he serves in a leading or critical role in his 
current U.S. position with I I In addition, the record sufficiently establishes thatl I has a 
distinguished reputation in the banking industry. 
Further, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field and has therefore satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner submitted evidence of his earnings in his 
previous positions of "Vice President, Credit Analyst," "Director, Credit Analyst," and his current 
position as "Director, Head of Asset Management & Portfolio, Oil & Gas," along with comparative 
salary information from several sources for the occupations of "credit analyst" and "portfolio 
manager" in thel I Texas area. The Director determined that the comparative salary surveys 
for "credit analyst" positions did not provide an appropriate basis for comparison because they were 
not for a "Vice President" or "Director" level position. The Director did not acknowledge the 
"portfolio manager" salary data. 
The Petitioner explains that "vice president" and "director" are "corporate titles" and not indicative of 
the nature of an employee's work within his company. He asserts that the evidence establishes that 
his job function for the years 2015 to 2018 was in fact that of a credit analyst as reflected in his job 
titles and submitted job descriptions, and notes that he did not assume a higher level position 
(equivalent to a "portfolio manager") until he was promoted to his current position in July 2018. The 
Petitioner's assertions are persuasive, and we find sufficient evidence to establish that he has 
consistently commanded a high salary in relation to others in his occupation since 2015. 
Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria, he has 
satisfied the initial evidence requirements, and we need not consider whether he meets the additional 
criterion (relating to memberships in associations) he addresses in his appeal brief. Rather, we will 
consider the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, together with the balance of the record, to 
determine whether he possesses the level of sustained acclaim and standing in his field to establish his 
eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor of engineering degree from the I I 
Institute of Technology! I in 2002 and later attendedc=JUniversity with a significant merit 
scholarship, where he received a Master of Business Administration (MBA) with a concentration in 
Finance in 2011. According to his curriculum vitae, the Petitioner worked as a software engineer, 
project lead, and financial IT analyst for banking and retail companies between 2002 and 2009, during 
which time he received two performance-related awards from one of his employers I I 
I . ~-Since 2?1 ~ he bas :rked in th: energy finance sectc:J ofthe_banking in~ustry, initi~lly 
as a credit analyst with~----~------~---------- and smce 2014, m progressive 
positions withl I where he currently serves as Director, Head of Asset Management & Portfolio, 
Oil & Gas. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner provided evidence that he has authored scholarly articles, 
performed in a leading or critical role with his current employer, and commanded a high salary. We 
have also considered evidence related to his business-related contributions, his membership in a 
professional association, and his academic and professional awards. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that his achievements have resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that he authored two articles in Intelligent Risk, a quarterly journal 
published by Professional Risk Managers' International Association (PRMIA), and a third article 
published on the website of the Oil and Gas Council. Authorship and publication of scholarly articles 
do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 3 Here, all three articles were published between 
~-----~2019, in the six-month period preceding the filing of the petition. The Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that this very recent publication record is consistent with having a "career of 
acclaimed work" and sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor did he show how his publication record compares to others who are 
viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
We note that the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Petitioner's written work can 
be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that 
others in his field have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination 
stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 Id. at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine whether they were indicative of being one of that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international 
acclaim). 
4 
Here, the Petitioner indicated that his published articles evidence his original business contributions 
of major significance in the banking industry. He explained that his articles published in Intelligent 
Risk are "contributions in the field ofl applicable to commercial banks," noting that 
he wrote with the intent of "help[ing] the banking community" to navigate new I I 
Specifically, the Petitioner describes hisl 12019 article as "a pioneering effort to break-down 
one of the most elaborate I I into bite-size pieces so tha[t] any 
banking professional can develop an understanding of what lies ahead in the near term." The Petitioner 
indicated that he received "positive feedback" on his Intelligent Risk publications but did not 
demonstrate that this feedback was at a level consistent with national or international acclaim. 
While the Petitioner submitted testimonials from banking industry professionals familiar with his 
Intelligent Risk publications, this evidence was insufficient to support his claim that his work was 
"pioneering" or received widespread recognition. For example, I I of Regions Bank states 
that the Petitioner's article was "a first attempt of its kind to illustrate the changes and 
highlight the impact that these.__ _____ ___.are about to cause," and notes that "any individual 
or team would benefit strongly from the article." .__ ______ __. of J.P. Morgan Chase, noted 
that the Petitioner's article was "published in a highly reputable journal" and "demonstrated his depth 
of industry knowledge by identifying future trends in the banking sector." Finally, I ~ 
of Bank of England noted that the Petitioner's article "looks ahead to the impact of the i D set of banking reforms agreed by banking! I and supervisors from the G20 group of 
nations." He states that the Petitioner's article was "relevant and forward looking" because the reforms 
"have the potential to impact banks' lending activities." These letters, however, do not demonstrate 
how the Petitioner's articles on bankin~ I while relevant and potentially helpful to other 
industry professionals, garnered widespread commentary or a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner also claims that his article ~---------------------~ ' ublished on the Thou ht Leaders latform on the website of the Oil & Gas Council, 
"~---~ Director, Energy & Natural 
._R_e_s_o_u-rc--e-s_a_t -.-----,--c-o_n_fi_1rm_e_d-th_a_t-th_e_P_e_t-it-io_n_e_r_h_a__,s been "working on introducing I I 
in the U.S." which "would benefit the energy producing companies as well as 
._o_t_h-er-b-an_k_s_a_li_k_e_-,,__.He noted thatl lhas already used this financing method in one transaction, 
and that "once this product becomes mainstream, it will directly and indirectly lead to the creation of 
thousands of jobs and will contribute materially towards the energy production in the United States." 
The Petitioner emphasized that he has "received accolades from people who found this article very 
useful." For example, he provided a letter froml ,I a Director at Credit Agricole Corporate 
& Investment Bank, who states that he and his employer benefited from the Petitioner's expertise in 
structuring the~ I financial lroduct and received internal approval to 
participate wit I in future transactions. I also references the Petitioner's article on I ~I praisinJ it as "very well written." He notes that his employer "is 
actively working to partner with to finance such energYI I companies." I , I 
an executive director at UBS Investment Bank, states that he is aware of the Petitioner's introduction 
of thq I product atj I and notes that it "will give access to an 
alternative source of capital to man~ I energy companies" as it becomes "more 
5 
popular" and other banks adopt it. This evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's article o~ I I I has received some attention and that other banks are seeking to partner with 
I Ion these transactions in the future. However, it also reflects that the product is still new, that 
it has been put to limited use by his own employer, and that it has not yet impacted the wider oil and 
gas banking industry. As a result, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's development of 
this financing technique has significantly influenced the field to the extent that he has garnered national 
or international acclaim as a result of either his published article or his employer's implementation of 
the product to date. 
While we acknowledge that it is a significant recognition to have his work accepted by peer-reviewed 
professional publications the Petitioner has not shown how his three published articles place him 
among the small percentage at the very top of his field. Overall, beyond the solicited testimonial 
evidence, there is limited evidence to support a finding that the Petitioner's published work and 
business-related contributions have resulted in national or international acclaim. 
We have also considered evidence related to his leading or critical role withl The evidence 
shows that the Petitioner advanced from a "Vice President, Credit Analyst" role to his current 
leadership role of "Director, Head of Asset Management & Portfolio, Oil and Gas" which he had held 
for one year as of the date or filing) I provided a letter in which he detailed the Petitioner's 
"significant contributions to ," noting that he "currently manages a "$5.0 billion portfolio of 
commitments tol I clients" and has "a direct implication on I I Business' 
success in the United States." A letter from I I Managil g Direc1or -Head of Energy 
Structured Finance, describes the Petitioner's contributions to in similar, highly 
complimentary terms. While both letters discuss the impact and results of the Petitioner's leadership 
withinl I the record does not reflect that he was hired based on his sustained national or 
international acclaim, or that he has garnered such acclaim outside of the organization based on his 
achievements and contributions to the company. Wh~has been recognized internally and by 
business colleagues for his accomplishments with L___J the record does not show how these 
successes have resulted in national or international acclaim. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
For example, the Petitioner provides evidence that I I was awarded a "Credit Portfolio Manager 
of the Year Award" from Risk Magazine in I 12018 and indicated that this award was won by 
his "team." However, the record does not establish that the awarding entity intended to recognize the 
Petitioner individually or the team of analysts he manages from the company's! I location. 
Further, the letters he submitted froml I andl I which discuss his achievements in 
detail, do not mention this award or how he contributed to his company's receipt of it. An article 
announcing the award contains quotes froml I global head of portfolio management, 
and barely references the bank's activities in the United States, much less the Petitioner's specific 
team. Therefore, even if the Petitioner had sufficiently corroborated his claim that the award is 
attributable to his team, there is no evidence that it resulted in any external recognition for his 
achievements. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's la;est prmotion ad I likely helped him achieve his "Risk 
Leader" designation with the PRMIA in 2019. According to a screenshot from the PRMIA 
website, "Risk Leader is a special designation reserved for risk practitioners who hold key executive 
positions with their firms," and who have their applications favorably reviewed by a "Risk Leader 
6 
Committee." While this elevated level of membership with PRMIA recognizes the Petitioner's senior 
level role with his company, the record does not establish that being recognized as a "Risk Leader" is 
the same as receiving industry recognition as one of the small percentage at the very top of the risk 
management field or that it is granted only to those with sustained national or international acclaim in 
this field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that he has earned a high salary with I I but has not shown 
that his earnings are at a level reflecting that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the top 
of the field. For example, the Petitioner stated that a "portfolio manager" is an appropriate basis for 
comparison to his current position. The record reflects that the Petitioner had a base salary of $17 5-
$185,000 in 2018, with a potential cash bonus of $60-70,000. His actual earnings were $236[ 189. He 
submitted a Glassdoor salary survey which indicates a "high" base salary of $174,000 for a_ I 
based portfolio manager and shows that persons in this occupation can earn up to $116,000 in 
"additional cash compensation." Considered with the other evidence, the Petitioner's salary appears 
to be consistent with his leading or critical role at I ~nd the distinguished reputation of the 
company as a major international corporate investment, and financial services firm, but does not 
necessarily reflect recognition of the Petitioner's acclaim in the field. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner provided a number of reference letters that summarized his work, 
achievements and contributions. The letters, however, do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as 
being among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204J..(h).Q). 
For example,! lof Regions Bank, who states that he was previously employed byL__J, 
indicates that the Petitioner is "very active in thel lbanking circle," "very well regarded by his ~ and "one of the top three ]rofessionals" that he has personally known in the field of 'I I 
L___J finance." I _ states that he considers the Petitioner to be "a professional with 
exceptional abilities in the field ofl I Finance in general an~ _Credit Analysis in fiart~cula~." 
I · ICFO for ~ !company and the Pet1t10ner's former Umvers1ty 
classmate, states that the Petitioner "has established himself as an exP.erienced banker with a skillset 
and exl)ertise that are highly desirable in the energy industry," whil~ I president and 
CFO o~ I. states that he has "no doubt in saying that [ the Petitioner] 
is one of the best in his field." 
Although the letters recount some of the Petitioner's accomplishments from recent years, they do not 
explain or justify their assertions regarding his position at the top of the field. Repeating the language 
of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, 
Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not provide sufficient 
information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show 
that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field as being among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner himself acknowledges that his most notable accomplishments are quite 
recent. The record reflects that his elevated membership in PRMIA, his promotion to a leadership 
position withl land all three of his publications occurred within the year preceding the filing of 
the petition. The record does not demonstrate that these recent achievements, while impressive, 
7 
demonstrate that is an individual has already garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation." See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. Reserved Issue 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether his entry would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States, as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(3) of the Act. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18329194 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 04, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an author ofl l seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for further consideration and the entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an award-winrng auror of1 1 who is also the creator and lead writer 
for~ Is television show, which was broadcast for one season on the Philippiner largest I 
television network. He states that he intends to continue to create books and other media for 
in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards and 
published media about him and his work. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director incorrectly 
applied the relevant regulations, and that he meets five evidentiary criteria in addition to those granted 
by the Director. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he meets the 
requisite three evidentiary criteria, and will therefore remand this matter to the Director for a final 
merits determination of whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they have received a prize or award, 
that the prize or award was granted based upon excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the prize 
or award is recognized in the field at the national or international level. Here, the record includes 
evidence that the Petitioner has received the following awards: 
• Winner I I j 
.__I _________ ____.t for........,I ______,,[ .__I _ ____.]2012 
2 
• Winnerr-------,.--------------' Foundation, Inc., for '----------~ I I Lr------.---' 2 o 12 
• Winner Story Writing Contest, Literary Fiction in Filipino category, forl~----~I 
2009 
• Winner, 2009 '----------~ Story Writing Competition, forl I I I ~--~ 
• Story Writing Competition, for .... I ____ ____. ---------~ 
• First Prize.__ __ ___, Contest (A national competition for poetry)j._ ___ ..... l 2004 
While the record also includes evidence that he was a finalist for other awards, that evidence does not 
establish that he received a prize or award in those instances. 
Regarding the search held by thel I which led tol I being produced as al I television 
show, the evidence does not indicate that the three selected entries ( out of fifteen submitted) which 
were chosen as a result were announced publicly or otherwise received recognition in the field. 
Although the Petitioner is mentioned as the winner of the search in some of the materials which later 
promoted the television show, including material posted b~ I on its website, this promotional 
material does not show recognition in the field. 
Turning to the two awards received by the Petitioner in the.__ ________ ___, Story Writing 
Competitions, in addition to the notifications of the award winners and promotion of their works which 
appeared on the website of the sponsor of the competition, the record includes evidence that the 
Petitioner's receipt of these awards was also mentioned in broader media. Specifically, al I 
2009 article about the Petitioner posted on the website of ABS-CBN states that the awards were 
received "in one of the most prestigious I I writing competitions," and notes that the Petitioner 
is the first two-time recipient of the awards. In addition, the record includes other evidence about the 
organization which sponsors the competition and other winners. On the basis of this evidence, we 
agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion, but did not provide an 
analysis of the relevant evidence. On review, the previously mentioned! [ 2009 article posted 
on the website of ABS-CBN is about the Petitioner, as it goes into detail about his career and 
background, and about his work as a writer. In addition, other evidence in the record demonstrates 
that ABS-CBN is a leading media organization in the Philippines. We therefore agree with the 
Director and find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
3 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence of participation as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization, whether as an individual or as a member of a panel. In 
support of these requirements, the Petitioner provided evidence that he served as a judge for the third I I Short Story Writing Competition in 2007. In his decision, the Director cited to the Act 
at section 201(b)(l)(A)(i) and its requirement of "extensive documentation," as well as to the very 
high standard set for individuals of extraordinary ability noted in the comments to the implementing 
regulations, and found that this single instance of serving as a judge was not "consistent with sustained 
national or international acclaim." 
As noted above, the Kazarian decision and subsequent USCTS policy memorandum 1 established a 
two-step analysis in the adjudication of petitions for individuals of extraordinary ability. In the first 
step, USCIS evaluates the quality and caliber of the evidence to determine whether the individual has 
received a major, internationally recognized award or meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
This step does not involve the determination of whether an individual is one of the small percentage 
at the very top of the field, or if they have sustained national or international acclaim. Only in the 
second step, after the initial evidentiary requirements have been met, are those standards applied to 
the totality of the evidence. 
Because the Petitioner has provided evidence of having judged the work of others in his field, we 
withdraw the Director's determination regarding this criterion and conclude that he meets the criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Based on our above analysis, the Petitioner meets three of the evidentiary criteria and thus the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification. As such, the second step of the analysis, the final merits 
determination, must be conducted. Because the Director did not perform a final merits determination 
in his decision, we are remanding this matter for him to do so. In accordance with USCIS policy, the 
Director should examine all of the evidence in the record and determine whether it shows, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and 
is one of the small percentage of children's book authors at the very top of the field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn and the matter is remanded for further 
consideration and the entry of a new decision consistent with the above analysis. 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20340150 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 04, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a chief technology officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence . See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw 
the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the 
following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has been serving in the pos1t10n of chief technology 
officer/technical director forl I and its U.S. subsidiary since these 
companies were established in 2002 and 2012, respectively. Both companies specialize in the 
development ot-c=] management technologies and software solutions. The Petitioner began his 
career in the management software field in the early 1990s and holds several patents. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director addressed evidence relating to four criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met his burden to establish that he has made original 
contributions of major significance and has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization 
with a distinguished reputation. The record supports the Director's determination, and we agree that 
the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii). 
We also agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires 
evidence of the person's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
2 
excellence in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner rovided evidence relating to two awards: 1 a 2018 
Business Award recognizin for "Best Internatio o_n_a_l 
Technologies"; and (2) a 2017 echnology Award issued to for its product ____ The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion because he did 
not show that he was the recipient of these awards. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his employer 
has confirmed that he is responsible for the development of the awarded technologies. He maintains that 
it is sufficient to establish that the awards are "traceable" to him despite the fact that his employer was 
the only named recipient for both awards. 
In evaluating evidence under this criterion, users must first determine whether the person seeking 
extraordinary ability classification was the recipient of prizes or awards. The description of this type 
of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards 
or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.1 Therefore, the Director's 
decision reflects that he applied established users policy by requiring evidence that the Petitioner 
himself was an acknowledged recipient of the awards documented in the record. Here, while the 
Petitioner's employer acknowledges his involvement in the development of its technologies, there is 
no evidence from the entities that issued the awards indicating that these awards programs were 
intended to recognize individual contributors within companies. As noted by the Director, both awards 
were granted to[ I 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to non-precedent decisions and asserts that this office has previously 
granted this criterion in cases where a company or employer was the recipient of an award. These 
decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind users officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the 
specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. Here, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the cited non-precedent cases were factually similar. For example, the Petitioner references a case in 
which an award issued to a corporation also separately listed individuals by name as award recipients. 
We found such evidence sufficient to establish that an individual was a recipient of the award, but this 
type of evidence is not present in this case. For the reasons discussed, we agree with the Director's 
determination that this criterion was not met. 
We also agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of published material about the petitioner in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, relating to the petitioner's work in the field. The Petitioner 
provided evidence that he was interviewed aboutl !products in the 2018 edition of the German 
publication Digital Druck ("Digital Print"). However, the interview is not "about" the Petitioner; the 
unidentified interviewer asked him general questions about digital printing and how customers can use I I products for certain applications, but the article does not provide information about the 
Petitioner himself beyond his name and job title. Further, the record does not contain evidence that Digital 
Druck is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. The Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to the German printing industry publication Deutscher Drucker ("German Printer") but 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the evaluation of evidence submitted in support of immigrant petitions for individuals seeking extraordinary 
ability classification). 
3 
did not provide similar evidence relating to Digital Druck. While it appears that the same publisher may 
also publish Digital Druck, the record lacks supporting evidence establishing the circulation and/or 
intended audience of this publication. The remaining evidence submitted in support of this criterion 
includes articles that do not mention the Petitioner and therefore cannot be considered published material 
about him. The Petitioner also submitted one 2020 article that was published subsequent to the filing of 
the petition and therefore cannot establish that he met this criterion at the time of filing. 2 On appeal, the 
Petitioner states that he "disagrees" with the Director's determination that he did not satisfy this criterion 
but does not further address it. For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner did not meet 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
III. BASIS FOR REMAND 
As discussed above, we agree with the Director's conclusions with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v) and (viii), including his determination that the Petitioner met two of these criteria. 
However, the record reflects that the Petitioner claimed to meet one additional criterion based on his 
authorship of scholarly articles published in professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his publications at the time of filing. Further, in response to a 
request for evidence, he specifically claimed that he was submitting evidence for evaluation under this 
criterion. The Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim or the evidence submitted in 
support of this claim and therefore did not evaluate whether he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 l&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, because the Director did not consider 
the Petitioner's claim that he met a fifth criterion, and the evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion, the Director did not adequately explain the reasons for denial of the petition. 
Based upon this deficiency, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. Should the Director conclude upon review that the Petitioner 
meets a third criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include a final merits analysis 
of the totality of the record. Specifically, the Director must evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he possesses the requisite sustained national 
or international acclaim, is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the 
time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20844331 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 04, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , al !engineer and technical director, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or demonstrate, in the 
alternative, that he satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We review the questions in this matter de novo. See Matter of Christa's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 
n.2 (AAO 2015). In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361, Matter 
of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a sound engineer and technical director who has worked on studio-recorded and live 
broadcasts in thel I industry since 2009. At the time of filing, the Petitioner indicated 
his intent to establish a company to provide sound engineering services for thel I industry and 
other !projects and events in the United States.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the following criteria:2 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration for services. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence that he registered a sole proprietorship business ______ I I in California in 2021. 
2 The Director observed that the Petitioner initially claimed to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires 
evidence of his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence. As noted in the Director's 
decision, the Petitioner withdrew that claim when responding to a request for evidence; the Petitioner does not mention 
this criterion on appeal. In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that he could 
satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which requires evidence of the display of an individual's work at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, although the Petitioner generally asserts that he "renews his arguments," he does not 
mention this criterion or contest the Director's decision that he did not meet it based on the previously submitted evidence. 
Therefore, we deem these issues to be waived and will not address these two criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter of 
M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
Evidence of the individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which class[fication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the work of 
others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied 
field of specialization. 3 
The Petitioner's initial evidence included a letter froml I who states he is a professor 
of sound engineering at the Institute of Television and Radio, and a senior 
sound director withl I and ______ I I states that he 
invited the Petitioner "several times to be a guest expert/judge for the Examination Commission in 
Sound Engineering at our university where [he] helped identify and examine graduating students on 
their knowledge and skills upon the final exam." 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter dated July 18, 2019, froml I faculty dean of the 
Higher School of latl I University named after I I 
"verifies that [the Petitioner] was a member of the jury of the examination commission." He indicates 
that the Petitioner was invited as an independent expert based on his experience as a sound director, 
and that he evaluated short-film projects for graduates. He further notes that each jury member "was 
representing a separate area of the filmmaking, such as work of operator, screen writing, acting skills 
and, of course, sound." Finally,! I states that the Petitioner provided a detailed and precise 
"criticism and analysis of sound component of each project" which "allowed more distinctly grade the 
works [sic]" 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director discussed these letters, noting that the letter from I I was not corroborated by evidence of the Petitioner's judging activities, lacked details 
about the specific dates of service, and did not identify whose work was judged or whether such work 
was in his field or an allied field. Similarly, the Director determined that the letter froml I 
did not establish the dates on which the Petitioner served as a jury member and was not supported by 
contemporaneous materials documenting his service or showing that he examined work in the sound 
engineering field. The Director allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to provide additional evidence 
in support of the criterion and advised that he should provide contemporaneous evidence that 
documents the event or occasion, the date of the event or occasion, and the work that was judged. 
Finally, the Director determined that the submitted translations ofl I documents were 
not accompanied by translations that fully complied with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3).4 
In response to the RFE the Petitioner submitted a printout of an email containing "Instructions for the 
Examination Commission." The sender of the message is identified only as and 
the recipient is I I The email indicates that the "summer examination 
commission" of I for second, third and fourth-year bachelor's degree students would take place 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 That provision states: "Any document containing foreign language submitted to USCTS shall be accompanied by a full 
English language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification 
that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
3 
on designated dates in May and June 2019, provides room numbers, and indicates that a detailed 
schedule of the examination schedule would be sent to all members of the examination commission 
by April 30, 2019. It also indicates that invited members should advise the Dean's office in advance 
if they cannot participate. 
The Director acknowledged receipt of this additional evidence but noted that the submitted email is 
not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner served as a judge or that the referenced "examination 
commission" was required to judge the work of those in the sound engineering or a related field. The 
Director also determined that the Petitioner had not overcome deficiencies with respect to the 
submitted English translations of I documents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that "the letter by satisfies the standard for 
this proceeding and it should be considered for its full value." The Petitioner acknowledges that the 
Director determined that the letter lacked sufficient detail but argues this conclusion did not amount 
to a "proper analysis" of the evidence submitted. Finally, the Petitioner maintains that the previously 
provided translations complied with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). 
We agree with the Petitioner that the translations that accompanied thel I evidence 
were sufficient to meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Nevertheless, we agree with the 
Director's determination that this criterion has not been satisfied. The Petitioner specifically asserts 
that the letter froml I adequately documented his prior participation as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or allied field. As noted,I ] indicates that he invited the 
Petitioner to be a "guest expert/judge for the Examination Commission in Sound Engineering at our 
university," and indicates that he "helped identify and examine graduating students on their knowledge 
and skills upon their final exam." Although! indicates that the Petitioner judged or 
helped examine graduating students in the field of sound engineering at the institution where he works, 
he does not provide specifics such as the dates of these examinations or the nature and type of authority 
or influence granted to guest experts/judges. For example, it is unclear whether such guest experts 
were responsible for determining whether a given student passed the exam or were otherwise involved 
in calculating grades or determining student outcomes. Therefore, we agree with the Director that this 
letter alone is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner participated in Jualifyingjudging activities 
as a member of an examination commission at the Institute of Television and 
Radio. 
The letter from I indicates that the Petitioner, as a member of the jury at an examination 
commission held at "thel _named after I evaluated sound engineering aspects of 
graduate film projects and provided "criticism and analysis" which facilitated the grading of such 
projects. He does not indicate how the examination commission was structured or what procedures 
were used to determine student grades and outcomes. Further, because the letter did not include dates, 
it did not sufficiently document a specific instance in which the Petitioner participated as a jury 
member. 
Finally, the e-mail containing "instructions for the members of the examination commission" was not 
clearly addressed to the Petitioner and refers to an examination commission at I I N eitherD I nor I state that they are affiliated withl I and the email alone is 
insufficient to establish that the Petitioner participated as a judge at an examination commission held 
4 
at I Further the email only indicates that the commission would be examining second, third-and 
fourth-year Bachelor's degree students; it does not identify their field of study and therefore cannot 
substantiate that the Petitioner participated as a judge of students in the field of sound engineering or 
an allied field of specialization. 
For the reasons discussed, the record does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. 5 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, we will 
address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether he has demonstrated original 
contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted letters from professors and sound 
engineering professionals, as well as letters from actors and clients who attested to his skills, talents, 
professionalism, his status in the field, and his possession of an uncommon ability known as al I 
which allows him to deliver optimum sound quality with minimal need for post-production sound 
editing. The Director determined that while this evidence establishes that the Petitioner's skills are 
highly valued, in demand, and have benefited his employers, the record did not show how his innate 
skills amount to an "original contribution" that has impacted the work of other sound engineers in the 
field or otherwise had an influence that extended beyond his employers. 
The Director further noted that some of the submitted letters attested to his introduction of new 
methods in sound engineering, specifically, a ______ technique. However, the Director 
noted that the record did not contain objective evidence that this technique was attributed to the 
Petitioner, as it did not contain patents, licenses or other objective materials crediting him with the 
development and use of the technique. 6 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that he submitted letters from 
and others that "referred to [his] trained talent for sound with his unique physical ability known as I I' and which "confirmed [his] use of I I technique." As noted, the 
Director acknowledged receipt of the referenced letters, evaluated the statements made by academics 
and professionals in the field, and determined that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to establish 
that he had made an original contribution of major significance in the sound engineering field by virtue 
of having a I I or based on his use of the L I technique. The Petitioner 
does not contest the Director's specific reasons for finding the submitted letters and other evidence 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
6 The Director's RFE addressed this criterion and advised the Petitioner that he could submit evidence such as contracts 
with companies that are using his technique or technologies or other evidence that he developed licensed or patented 
technologies or methodologies used by a significant number of others. The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not include 
any additional evidence in support of this criterion. 
5 
insufficient to demonstrate the nature and significance of his contributions to the field. Instead, he 
simply maintains that his arguments were persuasive and should be reviewed. 
With respect to the recognition the Petitioner has received for his I I we agree with the 
Director's determination that the letters did not demonstrate how his natural talent and training have 
resulted in an original contribution of major significance to the field of sound engineering. We do 
not doubt that such talents have enabled him to be quite successful in the broadcasting indust and 
have been valuable to the networks and studios that have employed him. For example, 7 
a Member of the and Sound Engineer for the 
indicates that the Petitioner worked with him 
on projects for and that he later invited him to work on projects at I 
including the I I explains that a live television broadcast requires a 
sound engineer "who can detect and eliminate any problems with the sound equipment as fast as 
possible" and that the Petitioner "was extremely useful in these tasks." He also comments on the 
Petitioner's "extensive knowledge and experience" in their shared field and offers praise for the clarity 
and accuracy of the Petitioner's recordings, which he attributes to his I 11 I states 
that "it is not enough to have an education, experience and extensive training in our field to have this 
phenomenon, but also one must be born with it." 
The letter from ______ also comments on the Petitioner's talents and the high quality of 
his work. He states that the Petitioner has a rare I I that allows him to "detect subtle 
differences in audio reproduction that most people cannot" and that "this ability is vital not only for 
live broadcasting but also extremely important for the recordings" as it minimizes the time needed for 
editing when uniting sound with video. He also praises the Petitioner's "high professionalism and his 
capability getting alon[g] with team members as well as famous guest celebrities, who are often known 
for their capricious personalities." I I further emphasizes the Petitioner's "ability to 
think unconventionally when it gets to use sound equipment" and notes that "his experimental 
approach" is what "makes him what he is." However, he does not elaborate on a specific approach 
that has been adopted by others or that would be considered widely influential or impactfol in the 
sound engineering field. 
While these and other letters attest to the Petitioner's innate talent and considerable experience in his 
field, his professionalism, and his status in the field as sought-after sound engineer, they do not identify 
how he has made an original contribution of major significance. 
A second letter from written in his capacity as senior head of the sound department 
fo s orts network I describes how the Petitioner was "the first personl I 
to improve the quality of sound" for I 
broadcasts, and indicates that such technology had not been used before in 
_ As noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not offer additional evidence to establish that he 
was the originator of this technique or technology, or that his technique had an impact on the field that 
extended beyond his employer. 
7 While we do not discuss all of the submitted reference letters here, we have reviewed each one in evaluating whether the 
Petitioner established that he meets this criterion. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence related to the technique. 
Specifically, he provides a licensin contract between himself and which 
identifies him as the owner of" atent issued on 09/21/2020 fo 
The agreement is dated November 25, 2020. We note that 
this type of evidence was specifically requested in the RFE issued in March 2021; however, the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence relating to the patent or licensing agreement in his response. 
Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first 
time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 
533 (BIA 1988). 
Further, while a patent may demonstrate the originality of the Petitioner's 
technique, the evidence does not support a determination that this technique had been widely licensed 
or commercialized such that it was demonstrated to have had a significant influence or impact on his 
field as of the date of filing. There is no evidence that the Petitioner held this or any other patent when 
the petition was filed in August 2020. While he has now demonstrated that at least one company 
requested a license to use the patented technology, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Overall, the letters do not contain detailed, probative information that identify the Petitioner's 
contributions and explain their major significance in the field. Having a diverse, unique, or special 
skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself. Rather, the record must be 
supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and abilities to impact the field 
at a significant level, which he has not shown. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that his salary, or total 
remuneration, is high or significantly high, respectively, based on a comparison with others in his field 
in similar positions and geographic locations. 8 In support of this criterion, the Petitioner initially 
submitted: 
• A "Contract Verification Letter" from indicating that he was 
contracted with this lcompany as a part-time Sound Engineer/Technical Director 
from February 2016 to September 2019 with a salary of 150,000 per month. 
• A "Contract Verification Letter" froml lindicating that he was contracted as a full-
time sound engineer/technical director from April 2009 until September 2019 with a salary of I 1260,000 per month, plus a quarterly bonus. 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (noting that it is the petitioner's burden to provide geographical and 
position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high). 
7 
• Printouts from www.averagesalarysurvey.com providing the average salary for an "engineer" in I lbased on data obtained from visitors to the website. The survey indicates an average salary 
(nationwide) as 1.7 million and the average salary inl as 2,781,666. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the submitted salary data for the occupation of 
"Engineer" did not provide an appropriate basis for comparison for the occupations of "Sound Engineer" 
or "Technical Director." Therefore, the Director determined that he had not provided any objective 
earnings data demonstrating that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
in relation to others in the same field. The Director requested that the Petitioner provide additional 
evidence, such as foreign tax documents, to document his prior annual earnings, as well as relevant 
comparative data such as geographical or position appropriate compensation surveys. The Director cited 
caselaw emphasizing that comparisons must be made to other similarly employed workers in the same 
industry. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the ________ Government 
Statistics! I. The letter states that the "average monthly wage" in the sound engineering field in 
I lin 2019 was 43,717 I I The Petitioner also provided copies ofhisl individual income 
tax returns (Formsl for the years 2018 and 2019. He reported total income of 6,835,770 
in 2018 and 7,285,320 in 2019. 
The Director determined that the submitted statistics from did not contain sufficient details to 
demonstrate what wage or remuneration would be considered "high" or "significantly high," as it was 
limited to averages without any additional breakdown. The Director also acknowledged receipt of the 
Petitioner's tax returns but emphasized that it was not accompanied by evidence that his "total income" 
was based solely on his salary or wages as a sound engineer and technical director. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he "renews his arguments" that he meets this criterion, noting that he 
"already provided evidence of significantly high remuneration for his services" with his initial submission 
and in response to the RFE. He also emphasizes that he is submitting evidence that he has started offering 
his services to clients inl I by opening a sole proprietorship business, but he does not explain 
how this evidence could demonstrate that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others as of the date of filing. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that this criterion has not been met. While the 
Petitioner provided comparative salary data from I that information is lacking in probative details 
that would allow us to determine what constitutes a "high salary" for an experienced sound engineer and 
technical director working in the network television industry in only purports to provide 
average salaries for "the sound engineering field," without specifying which occupations or job titles were 
included, and without providing any salary ranges within that field. As such, the information it provided 
was insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration in relation to other similarly employed sound engineers and technical directors. See Matter 
of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings 
versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
( considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-
45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
8 
The Petitioner indicates that he has been working as a sound engineer and technical director (with 
supervisory responsibilities), and that he had spent the last several years working concurrently for four 
different networks or studios. While his total income in 2018 and 2019 was provided on his tax returns, 
those returns were not accompanied by evidence demonstrating the source of that income, and whether it 
was solely from his earnings as a sound engineer and technical director. We acknowledge that two of his 
claimed employers provided letters stating his monthly wages, and that those figures were higher than the 
general average provided byl I Even if those letters had been accompanied by payroll or other 
corroborating evidence, it is not sufficient for him to demonstrate that one or more of his employers paid 
him a wage for his work as a sound engineer and technical director that is "above average" when 
compared to all salaries in "the sound engineering field" inl I 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the evidence in the record is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner 
has commanded a high salary or significantly high remuneration compared to other sound engineers and 
technical directors working in similar positions inl I The record does not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) or (ix). As noted, he claims that he can meet four criteria and must demonstrate 
that he meets at least three criteria to satisfy the initial evidence requirement for this classification. 
While the Petitioner claims to meet one additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), our 
determination that he does not the three criteria discussed above is dispositive of the appeal. 
Accordingly, we reserve and will not address the Director's separate determination that the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that he has performed in a leading or critical role with an organization or 
establishment that has a distinguished reputation, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii).9 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20993209 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 4, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), memberships at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and leading or critical role at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii).1 However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field. On appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
1 In one portion of the decision, the Director listed the evidence relating to the leading or critical role criterion and stated 
that "the submitted evidence does not meet this criterion." However, in discussing the final merits determination regarding 
the leading or critical role criterion, the Director stated that "the record shows that the [Petitioner] has played a critical 
and/or leading role for organizations with a distinguished reputation." Regardless, because the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the final merits 
determination. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
international acclaim, 3 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner, who is 3 7 years-old, submitted evidence reflecting some successes and attention in 
2015 when he played for thel I of the,__ _____________ 
However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that he has risen to that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3). 
Based on his resume, the Petitioner played at the youth and amateur level for _______ 
1998 -2000 winnin the "Vice-champion" in the Brazil x Japan Tournament, and for 
(2000 -2003), winning the "Vice-champion" at the 4th 
_______ Tournament. The Petitioner also listed several tournaments and events for each 
team. However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence supporting his assertions on his resume, nor 
did he demonstrate the significance of the events. In addition, the record does not reflect that he 
received any acclaim, notoriety, or attention from his participation on these teams during this period. 
According to his resume and screenshots from I I and wikipedia.org, the Petitioner 
professionally played soccer for approximately 15 years for the following teams: 
• I I (2003 -2005) 
• (2005) 
• (2006) 
• Sport Club (2006 -2007) 
• Sport Club (2007) 
• SC (2008) 
• Sport Club (2009 -2010) 
• 2011) 
• 2013 
• (2013 -2014) 
• FC (2015 -2016) 
• (2017) 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(1) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of "sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate all the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety for the final merits determination, in the context of the high level of 
expertise for this immigrant classification). 
3 
• SC Indoor (2017-2019) 
• Football Team (2018) 
• Arena Soccer (2018) 
Prior to 2013, the record contains minimal, if any, documentation of both his performance and 
subsequent acclaim in the field. According to his resume, thel I Sport Club won the I I State 
Championship in 2007 and I lsc earned Vice-Champion status in 2008. The Petitioner also 
claimed various events for the teams, such as the I State Federation Cup forl I I I in 2006 and thel !State Championship for Sport in 2011. Again, the Petitioner 
did not provide evidence supporting his assertions on his resume, nor did he demonstrate the 
significance of the awards or events. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show how he contributed to the 
teams' successes or how he distinguished himself from the other players reflecting that he was among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field. 5 
During this timeframe, the Petitioner submitted 18 articles mainly about the teams in which he is 
briefly mentioned as a member. Further, the record reflects only two 2007 articles showing substantive 
press coverage of the Petitioner. 6 In fact, the record contains one article from 2004, one article from 
2005, nine articles from 2006, and 7 articles from 2007. Here, the Petitioner has not established any 
media reporting of him in 2003 and from 2008 -2012. Besides evidence of his employment, the 
record contains no other evidence of his soccer experience from 2008 -2012, let alone any receipt of 
accomplishments, achievements, or acclaim in this period. 
From 2013 -2014, the Petitioner indicated that he played for thel I and the 
______ in the United States. The record contains only one article in this period reporting 
that the Petitioner signed with the In addition, the Petitioner indicated that 
the I were "Vice-Champions" in 2014 and submitted a 20141 I Championship medal. The 
Petitioner offered no other evidence relating to his playing experience with the I and did not 
demonstrate any acclaim he received from playing with the 7 He did not, for example, show 
any attention he received or was credited with significantly influencing thel I performance, 
placing him among that small percentage at the top of the field. 
In 2015, the Petitioner's most documented success, he played for the I inl I During 
this time, the Petitioner received the "2015 recognizing the top 11 players in the I I In addition, he earned one "Player of the Week" honor and was selected to the 'Team of the 
Week" four times. Further, the chose him as the ________ and the team won the I I championship. Further, the Petitioner provided over 30 articles relating to thel lgames 
in which he is mentioned as being a contributor in the respective games, including coverage of his 
awards. In addition, the Petitioner served as captain of the Besides serving as captain for the 
5 The Petitioner submitted screens hots from Wikipedia regarding background information for I Sport 
Club, and Sport Club. Although he also provided photographs and contracts for these teams establishing his 
employment with them, the evidence does not indicate his performances, accomplishments, roles, or otherwise show that 
he garnered any ii.cclaim when he competed for them ----, 
6 See 2007 article from DM Esportes and 12007 article from 0 Popular. 
7 The Petitioner's resume claims that thel I participated in the Cup (2013)" and (2013)." The 
record contains no evidence to support this assertion, nor did the Petitioner show the significance of his performance at 
these events. 
4 
in 2016, the Petitioner provided over ten articles that reported on the games in which he 
was referenced as one of the players in the various games during the season. 
In 201 7, the Petitioner returned to I I to play for I I Although the Petitioner provided 
about eight articles reporting on him signing with the team, the record reflects that he only played in 
two games. Moreover, thel !competed in the second division rather in the country's top 
division. Then in the same year, the Petitioner returned to the United States to play for thel I I I in thel !Arena Soccer League. The Petitioner provided two articles reporting on him 
signing with the team. Further, an article from thel I website indicated that the Petitioner played 
in only one game with an injury ending his season. 
In 2018, the Petitioner was selected to the ___________ Team in the 
and served as its captain. The Petitioner submitted an article from the 
website reflecting that the Petitioner "is fully recovered," and indicating that the team 
finished in fourth place. The Petitioner indicated that he has signed a contract with the through 
August 2021. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner has played soccer, both at the amateur/youth and professional levels, 
for approximately 20 years. However, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown 
that he garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his accomplishments and 
achievements have placed him among that small percentage at the very top of the field. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). Here, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently documented his soccer career that shows a career of sustained acclaim and meets 
this very high standard. 
Again, the Petitioner garnered some awards in the 2015 season when he played for the However, 
he has not demonstrated how his receipt of these accolades in 2015, without any documented before 
or after, reflects that he "is one of that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual 
of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
In addition, the Petitioner demonstrated that he was a member of the 
Team in 2018. However, the Petitioner did not show that his recent single team membership resulted 
in sustained national or international acclaim or reflects "that small percentage who [has] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2) 
and (3). The record, for instance, does not contain media coverage or other evidence showing that he 
received national or international recognition based on his membership with the team. Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not establish that he distinguished himself from others at the tournament, gaining 
national or international attention in the field. 
Regarding published material about him, the majority of the media coverage represents the 2015 
season, along with some additional, limited reporting for the 2016 season. However, the Petitioner 
5 
did not demonstrate that published material from 2015 -2106 represents sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that his overall press coverage is indicative of a level of 
success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that media reporting 
concentrated in 2015 -2016 reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard 
... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the Petitioner served as captain for the in 2015 and 2016 and for the _____ 
I ITeam in 2018. While we acknowledge that the won a championship in 2015 under 
his leadership, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his role was reflective of, or resulted in, 
widespread acclaim from his field or that he is considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner did not establish that he garnered acclaim or extensive 
recognition from the field based on his leadership, representing sustained national or international 
acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and H.R. 
Rep. No. at 59. 
We note here that the Petitioner provided recommendation letters praising him for his skills and 
abilities. For instanceJ I head coach for the I discussed the Petitioner's "unique 
anticipation method" and "game methodology." Moreover, I retired soccer 
player, opined on the Petitioner's "time abroad and his diverse experience in a range of clubs have 
developed in him a versatility that is most desirable in soccer." Further] l president of the 
indicated that the Petitioner was "an integral player of the successful 2015 team." Although 
the letters commend the Petitioner on his play, they do not contain sufficient information and 
explanation to show that he is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being 
among the upper echelon or that he garnered recognition on a national or international scale, consistent 
with being among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 8 Further, the letters 
do not establish that he has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a 
career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for at the top of their respective fields. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even 
major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an 
individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks 
omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); 
Hamalv. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 
8, 2021) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that letters indicating that a beneficiary is a competent, 
respectable figure within the field of endeavor but the record lacks sufficient, concrete evidence supporting such statements 
do not necessarily show the beneficiary's claimed extraordinary ability). 
6 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner 
need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the 
record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is 
among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21302083 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 4, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
established that he satisfies the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , he did not 
establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with our discussion below. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner establishes that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the 
totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffolfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a engineering researcher and specialist. He 
states that he intends "to promote and drive the development of groundbreaking research and 
development in the field of I engineering." 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three 
criteria and the Director concluded that he satisfied all three, relating to judging the work of others, 
original contributions of major significance in his field, and authorship of scholarly articles in 
professional publications. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi). 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to properly conduct a final merits 
determination in which he considered all the evidence together in its totality, noting that the Director's 
decision failed to address much of the evidence the Petitioner submitted and should be overturned for 
that reason. 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director's final merits analysis is lacking a detailed 
discussion of the evidence provided in support of the petition. Although the Petitioner submitted 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together and consider the petition in its entirety to make a final merits determination of whether or 
not the petitioner has demonstrated sustained national or international acclaim and that their achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the individual is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor). 
2 
evidence relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v) and (vi), the final merits discussion 
only briefly addresses part of the evidence for two of the criteria that the Director determined he had 
satisfied ( original contributions and authorship of scholarly articles), rather than considering the 
evidence in its totality.2 The Petitioner contends that the Director disregarded multiple expert opinion 
letters that address his standing in the field, evidence relating to his participation as a judge of the work 
of others, his awards (such as a "National Outstanding Technical Director" certificate), his speaking 
engagements at technical conferences, documentation showing the importance of his research 
contributions, and his professional memberships. 
Because the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision did 
not sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility for the requested 
classification. An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a 
petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful 
appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
In addition, we observe that the Director's final merits analysis applies incorrect standards in 
evaluating the Petitioner's publication record and citation evidence. For example, the Director 
decision focuses on the Petitioner's lack of first authorship of four of his scholarly articles published 
in English, but an individual need not be the first author to show acclaim in their research field. The 
Director's analysis also concludes that while the Petitioner provided information from Baidu Scholar 
showing that his articles published in Chinese have received 237 citations and from Researchgate.net 
demonstrating that his articles published in English have received 92 citations, his "overall number of 
citations ... do not indicate that [he] belongs to the very top of the field of endeavor with sustained 
national or international acclaim." The Director's decision, however, does not explain the reason for 
this conclusion or indicate why the bibliometric information offered by the Petitioner in the article, 
entitled did not provide 
a proper basis for evaluating his total number of citations relative to others in the field. 3 The Director's 
decision further states that the Petitioner did not submit his "citation history from the widely accepted 
Google Scholar." An officer, however, cannot predetermine the kind of evidence he or she thinks a 
petitioner should be able to submit and deny the petition if that particular type of evidence is absent. 4 
For all the reasons discussed above, the Director did not adequately or correctly explain the grounds 
for denial of the petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for further review and entry of a new decision. The new decision should evaluate the evidence 
together and include an analysis of the totality of the record, including additional documentation the 
Petitioner has provided on appeal and the evidence previously submitted in support of all claimed 
initial evidentiary criteria, such as the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). As the Director 
already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria, the Director should consider the 
2 The Director's analysis of the evidence pertaining to these two criteria was limited to the Petitioner's citation counts, 
whether he was first author of his scholarly articles, and the total number of publications he authored. 
3 While bibliometric statistics showing how often others in the field are cited can serve as a metric of acclaim and renown 
within the field, the comparative information in the Insights into Imaging article is limited to authors who have published 
in that particular journal. 
4 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), supra. 
3 
petition in its entirety to make a final merits determination of whether or not the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9968392 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 05, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orthopedic surgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal, 
finding that the Petitioner met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 1 
The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reconsider and motion to reopen. On motion, 
the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that he meets two criteria in addition to the one 
criterion we found that he meets in our previous decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence that he has judged the work of others in his field under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 2 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as an orthopedic surgeon and on the faculty of a hospital-affiliated medical 
school. He does not indicate that he intends to work in these capacities in the United States. Instead, 
he states that he seeks employment as a scientific advisor or consultant in orthopedics and traumatology. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
With regard to the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner 
maintains that previously submitted letters from current and former and colleagues establish his "leading 
or critical role." The letters indicate that the Petitioner was the director of the knee surgery unit in the 
department of ortlopedlc surgery at the Central Hospital I I and a professor at its affiliated 
medical school at University. He also was the head of the knee surgery unit at the Home Clinic I I We concluded that although the Petitioner appears to have held a leadership position within 
a particular surgical unit, the evidence submitted did not establish that his position in charge of a 
specialized surgical unit was a leading or critical role for those hospitals. The Petitioner, for examp~ 
did not show how his role as head of a surgical unit influenced or impacted the Central Hospital LJ I lor the Home Clinicl I overall. In addition, the submitted documentation does not 
demonstrate that those organizations have a distinguished reputation. Lastly, the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner performed a leading or critical role in his faculty position with the University 
I l or that the organization has a distinguished reputation. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not 
shown that our determination for this criterion was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the 
time of the decision. Therefore, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
Regarding the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Petitioner initially submitted a letter 
from a clinic in Venezuela, indicating that the Petitioner earned "an income of more tha[n] 70% of fees, 
when compared with the rest of the medical specialist[ s]." Our appellate decision found that the meaning 
of this statement is not clear from its phrasing and concluded that the letter did not show the Petitioner's 
actual remuneration or provide an objective basis for comparison with the remuneration of others in his 
field. 
We further noted that within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he 
submitted a statement of his earnings between 2015 and the first six months of 2018 from accountant 
2 The Petitioner did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
2 
.__ __________ ___. which contained the following earnings figures, in Venezuelan bolivares 
fuertes:3 
2015 
2016 
2017 
Total Income 
January 2018 
February 2018 
March 2018 
April 2018 
May 2018 
June 2018 
Last Six Months Yearly Average Bs.F.182,350,000.00 
391,000,000.00 
549,200,000.00 
1,922,200,000.00 
198,652,000.00 
214,544,160.00 
239,907,408.00 
310,470,000.00 
406,658,500.00 
450,990,200.00 
25,294,475.37 
Although we found that the Petitioner established that, given the conversion rates in effect as of March 8, 
2019, Bs.F.25,294,475.37 were worth $2,532,613.30 in U.S. currency, we determined that the record did 
not adequately explain the origin of the Bs.F.25,294,475.37 figure, and the other financial figures were 
problematic for the following reasons: 
• The accountant who prepared the above table stated that the figures derived from "bank 
statements, tax returns, agreements and other documents," but those documents are not in the 
record, and the accountant did not specify the amounts shown on individual documents. Because 
the Petitioner did not submit payroll or tax documents, we cannot determine whether the 
Petitioner's compensation increased substantially every month, or, instead, the figures represent 
cumulative totals, with the figures for each month or year added to the next. For instance, the 
amount shown as the Petitioner's income for June 2018 is worth about $45 million in U.S. 
currency, given the cited exchange rate of roughly ten bolivares fuertes to the dollar, an amount 
that appears to be implausibly high for a month's remuneration. 
• The table does not specify how much of the reported income was in the form of remuneration for 
services, rather than from other sources such as investments. 
• The annual figures for 2015 through 2017 do not add up to the amount shown as 'Total Income" 
directly beneath those figures. 
• The monthly figures shown for January to June of 2018 have no discernible relation to the much 
lower figure identified as the "Last Six Months Yearly Average." The record does not show how 
this average was calculated. 
3 Our appellate decision noted that Venezuela revalued its currency in August 2018, with the new bolivar soberano (VES 
or B.S.) being phased in to replace the bolivar fuerte (VEF or B.F.), and that all the figures shown above predate the 
conversion and therefore represent bolivares fuertes. Because the Director relied on the exchange rate for VES, not VEF as 
the Petitioner did, in calculating his annual salary, we withdrew the Director's specific finding regarding exchange rates but 
agreed with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had not met his burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
3 
Based on those deficiencies in the submitted statement of earnings, we determined that the Petitioner had 
not provided sufficient evidence to establish his actual salary or remuneration for services. 
In addition, we concluded that the Petitioner had not provided a basis to compare his salary in relation to 
others in the field in Venezuela. The Petitioner resubmitted on appeal a printout from PayScale, showing 
the following figures for Venezuela as of December 7, 2017: 
Physician / General Practice 
Physician / Internal Medicine Bs.750,900 
1,368,000 
Comparing the Bs.1,368,000 figure to Bs.549,200,000.00 from the accountant's table, the Petitioner 
asserted that he "earns almost 400 [times] more" than "the maximum amount made by a physician in 
Venezuela in December 2017." 
Our appellate decision found that the PayScale printout was deficient for reasons which included the 
following: 
• The Petitioner is an orthopedic surgeon, not a general practitioner or internist. 
• The Petitioner earned remuneration not only as a physician, but also as a university faculty 
member. There is no indication that the individuals surveyed for the PayScale chart held paid 
academic positions. 
• The chart does not specify the interval of the salaries (e.g., weekly, monthly, or annual). 
• An annotation on the chart shows that only 10 individuals provided salary information, a sampling 
which is too small to support any larger or general conclusions. 
• The printout shows "Salary" information, which does not appear to take into account other forms 
of remuneration such as bonuses and fees for specific services. Without knowing such figures, 
both for the Petitioner and for others in his field, a fair comparison is not possible. 
Based on the foregoing, we concluded that the Petitioner's claim of high remuneration rests on 
incomplete, uncorroborated, and questionable numbers. 
With the current motion, the Petitioner submits articles from the Venezuelan websites 
BancayNegocios.com and ELestimulo.com and asserts this new documentation "proves that [the 
Petitioner] earned significantly more than the average medical doctor in Venezuela," and therefore 
satisfies the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner also submits another copy 
of the aforementioned statement of his earnings, however, since this evidence was previously 
submitted within the Petitioner's RFE response it is not new evidence and does not satisfy the 
requirements of a motion to reopen. 
The article from Banca Y Negocios.com includes a table of the "levels or ranks of monthly salaries" 
of public employees in Venezuela in 2018, and indicates under the category "professional university 
personnel" that for "a Professional III, the maximum level" the highest rank will earn a total of Bs. 
611,545.99." The article from EL Estimulo.com dated July 7, 2017, titled "How much does a 
professional earn in Venezuela?" indicates, based on "data provided by Elsalario.com," that "in 
Venezuela a medical doctor who practices the profession in the private sector earns approximately 
4 
297.72 dollars (800,000 bolivars) while a medical doctor in a public hospital may get up to 59.29 
dollars (160,000 bolivars)." 
The regulation requires that the Petitioner's salary be high "in relation to others in the field." The 
aforementioned articles do not contain information that would allow that comparison as they do not 
include occupational wage data or salary survey results for orthopedic surgeons in Venezuela, nor do 
they affect our prior determination that the Petitioner's evidence is insufficient to establish his actual 
salary or remuneration for services as it rests on incomplete, uncorroborated, and questionable numbers. 
Accordingly, the information provided from Banca Y Negocios.com and EL Estimulo.com does not 
overcome our previous conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). As the new evidence does not demonstrate eligibility, the motion to reopen will be 
dismissed. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. Further, the new documentary 
evidence submitted does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision and establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility for the requested benefit. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9286238 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 5, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a painter, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement by satisfying at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). The Director further found 
that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is an ~---------~Painter" who has displayed 
his work in the United States, Spain, Taiwan, Costa Rica, and his native Venezuela. He received a 
bachelor's degree in civil engineering before completing his artistic training at thel I 
Museum inl !between 2004 and 2012. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of these ten criteria, 
relating to display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The record reflects that his work has been exhibited at several gallery exhibitions. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the display criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the following evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3): 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii) Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii) Published materials about him and relating to his work; 
• (viii) Leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
• (x) High salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he 
meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion based on the following:2 
• Honorable Mention-I 12018 Online Showcase; 
• "Artist of the Day" se~le-c-t1-. o-n--:i======================~=~ ...... 1-----. 
• Finalist (Still Life category)-1 I Salon Competition 
(2017); 
• Finalist (Still Life category)- Salon Com etition (2016); 
• Finalist and Gallery A ........... ~~=-~--~ Competition (2015); 
• Honorable Mention t-rt-----=c,,....o-n-te-s-ts_(..,.,2'""0"""0....,6-, -=-'20-07); 
• Nomination Art Contests (2005, 2008); 
• Nomination fo Prize" -Salonl 1(2012); 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted insufficient evidence relating to the 
competitions in which he participated and did not establish that the awards he received are nationally 
or internationally awards for excellence in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner contests this finding 
noting that he provided extensive supporting evidence relating to each award and each awarding entity. 
He also emphasizes that the Director did not mention all of his awards in the decision and it is therefore 
unclear whether he considered them. 
While we disagree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient 
evidence relating to the competitions in which he participated, for the reasons discussed below, we 
find insufficient evidence to establish that the submitted evidence meets all elements of this criterion. 
With respect to his "honorable mention award" from I I 2018 online showcase, the 
Petitioner submitted a copy of his certificate, a public announcement of the award winners froml I 
website, and background information regarding thd lwhich is described as a 3,400-member 
national organization "established for the sole purpose of representing traditional, representational oil 
painters." The contest rules for the online showcase (held three times per year) indicate that entry is 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution, for example, may have little national or international significance)_ 
2 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based r honorable mention recogTtions at th<'I I I I Salon (2008 and 2009) and a second-place award at the~--------~ in honor of the 50th 
anniversary ofthel l Venezuela. On appeal, the Petitioner has not pursued his claim that these 
are qualifying awards and we will therefore not discuss them here. We note that the Petitioner's painting appears in the 
exhibition booklet for the I ~ exhibition, but the record does not contain evidence of the referenced second 
place award. 
3 
limited to c=Jmembers. All entries are displayed on the Os online showcase and winners receive 
cash prizes. 
TheLJ s announcement of the results of itsl I 2018 online showcase indicates that there were 
517 entries. The juror of the competition awarded first, second and third-place prizes (which included 
cash awards), and recognized 10 additional pieces with an honorable mention. The Petitioner did not 
provide evidence that he received any type of award or prize apart from the honorable mention 
certificate, nor is there evidence that the results of this online showcase were publicized or recognized 
outside of thee=) website and membership. 
The Petitioner submitted copies oflocal media articles that discuss other~ompetitions and artists 
who received awards in such competitions, including the gold medalist oLJ' s 2019 I I 
Exhibition (described as Os "highest honor for master signature artists") and a silver medalist at 
thec=)'sl !Regional Show. The record does not contain similar media coverage ofthe0s 
online showcases. The Petitioner provided online profiles of other artists, asserts that they also 
participated in th~ 12018 online showcase, and notes that they enjoy "recognition and good 
reputations in the field." However, it is unclear how this evidence establishes that the Petitioner's 
honorable mention recognition meets this criterion. 
While the Petitioner provided evidence thaO is a nationally recognized organization, this status 
does not establish that an honorable mention in one of its seasonal online competitions is a nationally 
recognized award for excellence in the Petitioner's field. Rather, it is the recognition that the award 
receives in the field on a broader level, beyond the issuing organization or event, that determines 
whether it satisfies that element of this criterion. 
With regard to the Petitioner's selection as an "Artist of the Day," the Petitioner provided evidence that 
he was the featured artist onl Is social media accounts (Facebook and Twitter) onl • I D 2017 The social media accounts provided a link to his artist profile and artwork onl Is 
website. I I is described as "the I I online art gallery" representing more than 
60,000 artists. The Petitioner submitted a letter froml lofl I who states "[o]ur 
curators selected [the Petitioner] from among 60,000 artists to be presented ... as Artist of the Day." 
She states that "[t]his is an extremely sought after internationally recognized prize, based on the large 
number of artists throughout the world who show their work onl I and the level of exposure 
that is achieved throughout the world through the prize, given the hundreds of thousands of diverse 
collectors who follow! I on social media."I I further notes that~ I's curatorial 
staff are "renowned art industry experts" who select "only a small percentage ofC ~, for this 
honor. 
While the Petitioner has shown that it is an honor to be among the artists selected for "Artist of the 
Day," the plain language of the regulation requires evidence that he was the recipient of an "award or 
prize for excellence" in his field. The evidence does not support! I statement that selection 
as an "Artist of the Day" is a "prize," nor does the evidence establish what criteria are used for 
selection. For these reasons, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's selection as an artist 
of the day is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence. 
4 
We have also considered evidence of the Petitio~inalist" status in the I I Salon 
Competitions. The Petitioner asserts that thL_J Salon is "the most prestigious realist art 
competition in the Americas." 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of the introduction from the ~-------~ Salon 
Competition's exhibition catalogue, which indicates that 1,006 works (32% of all submitted) were 
selected as finalists that year. The submitted evidence did not establish that all finalists received a 
"prize or award" or support the Petitioner's claim that being named a finalist is a prize or award in­
and-of-itself. The book introduction mentions that thel I Salon Competition 
awarded: a Best in Show prize; a special prize for the runner-up to the Best in Show; first, second and 
third place awards in each of eight designated categories; five special awards; six Chairman's Choice 
Awards; eightD Staff awards; two museum purchase awards, and seven magazine awards, among 
others. Similar results are summarized in the submitted exhibition catalogue for the I I ~ Salon Competition. 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml L Os chief operating officer, who states that 
"[f]inalist status in thel I Salon is a nationally and internaJionallr recognized award 
for excellence" noting that "finalists' work is displayed in a print catalog, o s website, and may 
be featured in a traveling exhibition." However! I does not explain how finalist status qualifies 
as an "award or prize" in a competition that bestows all of the above-mentioned awards. 
While the evidence reflects that the Petitioner, as one of dozens of finalists in his category, 3 had his 
work displayed on thel !website and in th~ Salon exhibition catalogs, he did not establish 
that he received an "award or prize" as a finalist. Therefore, we acknowledge that the Petitioner's 
"finalist" status in twol I Salon competitions garnered him some recognition that 
would be weighed under a final merits determination, the record does not establish that it is a prize or 
award that satisfies all elements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims eli ibilit under this criterion based on his "Finalist" status and "Gallery 
award" at the 2015 Com etition held in He 
submitted a "Recognition Certificate" from the .__ ____________ ___. Art Association 
indicating he was selected as a finalist but did not submit a comparable certificate for his "Gallery 
Award." However, the Petitioner provided a screenshot of the I IFacebook page, 
which lists the results of the competition. These results recognize a Championship winner, a 
Chairman's Award winner, and 34 "Gallery Winners" who were "selected into I I 2016." The Petitioner's name was listed among these 34 art ..... i-st_s_, -an_d_t_h_e_P_e-t1-·t1-.o-n_e........,r 
provided exhibition advertisements and an exhibition catalog confirming the inclusion of his painting 
in the exhibition held in 02015. The evidence reflects that 90 finalists were 
selected to participate in th_~--~i--ortion of the exhibition, which according to one of the submitted 
media articles, included 278 artists and nearly 2000 artworks. Based on the submitted evidence, it 
appears that all 90 finalists participated in the 2015 ~-------~exhibition, while the 
"Gallery Award" winners also received invitations to return to exhibit their work in the 2016 edition 
of the event. 
3 In 2012, for example, there were 466 entries in the Still Life category, of which 171 were named finalists and winners. 
5 
The supporting evidence shows that the I • lexhibition receives significant media 
coverage, and that the works of finalists from thd I are "a staple at the annual fair" making up 
one of the ten sections at the exhibition. While the evidence indicates that the competition is 
international in scope and quite competitive based on the number of entries, the record does not 
establish that recognition as a finalist involves the receipt of a "prize or award," or that the "gallery 
award" is an internationally recognized prize for ~nee in the field. The submitted media 
Oe focuses on the increasing popu]aritv oftpeL___Jcompetition as well as thel I 
exhibition, but does not mentiod.__ __ ~kinners or finalists or demonstrate that finalists or 
ga ery award winners receive recognition that extends beyond the event's website and attendees at 
the exhibition. 
As noted, the Petitioner also claims eligibility based on his two "Honorable Mention" and two 
"Nomination" recognitions received inl IArt Contests between 2005 and 2008. The 
Petitioner states that this is a national competition in Venezuela, sponsored by '---------~ manufacturer. The submitted com etition results reflect that the contest selects first, second and third 
place winners, one winner of a Mention," one winner of a .__ _____ ___, Mention," 
one winner of a '--------~ Mention," several "Special mentions," several "Honorable 
mentions," with several artists recognized as "nominees" or "pre-selectees," which appears to be 
comparable to a "finalist" status. 
An article about the competition indicates that it is "aimer at students anh amateurs over 15 years" 
and that works must be created using certain brands from.__ ____ ~The evidence reflects that 
the first, second and third place finishers receive cash prizes, and all others who are pre-selected 
receive a I I case." The Petitioner submitted an article from Analytica.com about the 7th 
edition of the contest held in 2005, which states that there were 264 entries. The article mentions the 
winners of first, second and third place awards, two special mentions, and two honorable mentions, 
but does not mention the Petitioner or the work that earned him a nomination. The Petitioner also 
submitted brief articles regarding the 2007 and 2008 editions of the contest, both published online by 
El Papel. The article from 2007 mentions that 27 artists were recognized out of 123 submissions to 
the contest but does not identify the artists or their awards. The article about the 2008 contest also 
mentions that there were 27 winners out of "more than a hundred works," and only identifies the first­
place winner. 
~Wh..:....:....::c;:;;:;.il;:;.::e:........::.:th;:;.:e:..1:I =.-----~!Art Contest appears to be national in scope andl I is an 
.... I _____ __.I recognized brand, the submitted documentation does not establish that an honorable 
mention or nomination in this contest, which is limited to students and amateurs and has a relatively 
small number of entrants, is a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in this 
field. The evidence does not sufficiently establish that artists selected as nominees or honorable 
mentions receive recognition that extends beyond the awarding organization. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his nomination for thel I 
I !Prize" in the Venezuelan competitiod I noting that this is "an important 
national award in Venezuela for excellencr " The evidence jndicates that thel I Prize is 
an award for drawing given as part of the '.__ _____ ___,Arts Prizel I Exhibition." A 
booklet recognizing the winners of the 41 st edition held in 2012 indicates that the jurors recognized a 
"winner" and an "honorable mention" in drawing and several other categories, while the Petitioner's 
6 
name was listed among many dozen "selected artists." The Petitioner's certificate from this 
competition indicates that he "participated" and that his drawing was included in the exhibition. The 
evidence does not establish, however, that a certificate of participation is an "award or prize for 
excellence" in the field. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he has received lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion based on his "memberships as Finalist" in 
thel lsalons and his membership in thd , I. 4 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association, and 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 5 
With respect to his finalist status in twd ISalons, the Petitioner emphasizes that he 
was required to present outstanding work that was judged by experts in his field in order to be 
recognized as a finalist. However, he has not explained how achieving finalist status in an annual art 
competition conveyed membership in an association, as required by the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As noted, the Petitioner submitted the same evidence in 
support of the awards criterion which was appropriate given the nature of the ~ Salon as a 
competition in his field rather than an association in his field. 
Regarding his membershi in thel L the Petitioner submitted a certificate and membership card 
indicating his rank as an L_ __ ...,-------;' This evidence was accompanied by a letter from the 
association's President-Founder,.__ ____ __, who describes the academy as "an international 
Association made up of 400 member artists from 50 countries" who are "selected by a jury of 
exceptional member artists with credentials demonstrating recognition for their expertise in their 
respective fields of art." He indicates that new members are selected "based on the high quality of 
their work, originality, the skill required to create the artwork, as well as the artist's achievements in 
terms of art exhibitions, prizes and/or other qualifications." The Petitioner also provided a list of jury 
members from the association's website d I, and media articles about a 
few of the member artists. 
4 The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility based on his membership in.__ _______ _. the International 
Association of Art, and The Venezuela Association of Plastics Arts, but did not pursue these claims in response to the 
Director's request for evidence or on appeal. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 6-7 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
7 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a second letter from I I who 
provided additional information regarding the composition of thel ljury. He notes that it is 
composed of a group of 42 "exceptional artists, gallery owners, art critics, university professors of art, 
and directors of art magazines" and states that they are "nationally and/or internationally recognized 
art experts." I I highlights the credentials and achievements of five of theLJjury members, 
and repeats verbatim his earlier statements regarding the criteria for membership in thel I. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that 
outstanding achievements are required for membership, or evidence (such as the association's 
constitution or bylaws) that discusses the qualifications required for the reviewers of the review panel. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the regulations do not require submission of an association's 
constitution or bylaws, and asserts tha~ Is letter is sufficient to establish that his membership 
in the I I satisfies all requirements of this criterion. 
While we have considered I I's letter!, we aree with the Director that his statements are not 
sufficiently detailed to establish that the requires prospective members to demonstrate 
"outstanding achievements" as a condition of admission. As noted, I I mentions that thd I 
considers factors such as "high quality of their work, originality, the skill required to create the 
artwork, as well as the artist's achievements in terms of art exhibitions, prizes and/or other 
qualifications." This statement is broad and is not accompanied by any supporting evidence regarding 
thd lor its membership requirements, such as information from its website regarding membership 
and the application process, or its constitution or bylaws, which may contain information regarding 
the selection criteria and process for becoming a I ..., 1"6 Although the Petitioner ~o the Director's request for the D's bylaws or constitution or any other evidence beyond 
L___js letters, the regulations state that a petitioner shall submit additional evidence as the director, 
in his or her discretion, may deem necessary. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8). For the reasons discussed, 
the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him and 
relating to his work in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the 
title, date, and author of the material. 7 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director either mischaracterized or overlooked "the most 
important publications" submitted under this criterion, and imposed requirements that are not indicated 
by the plain language of the regulations. The record reflects that the Petitioner has submitted several 
6 As noted, the only screen;ill.Q1....1Qe Petitioner provided from the ~ website was a list of the Official~ Jury 
members. We note that thel__Jwebsite states the following regarding its membership criteria: "The first criterion is 
talent, regardless of the length of the CV, years of experience, awards and honors received. You can try your luck even if 
you are a new artist[.]" See Website of I I http~ I 
index.php/fr/candidature (accessed on Jul. 28, 2020). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
8 
in-depth interviews that are about him and relating to his work, and which also include the required 
author, title and date of publication. He also emphasizes that his work has appeared in curated online 
collections and in exhibition books, but these sources, which display his work, do not include an 
article, interview or other information about him, and therefore do not satisfy the criterion. Therefore, 
the remaining issue is whether the Petitioner established that any of the referenced articles or 
interviews were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
In his appellate brief, the Petitioner specifically highlights the following evidence in support of his 
claim that he meets this criterion: (1) his interview on the YouTube progra~ 1(2) an interview 
published in Artspace's online magazine (www.artspace.com/magazine); (3) inclusion of his work in I I publications at~ ______ _, (4) a feature on his work published by the website 
Art People Gallery (www.artpeoplegallery.com); (5) an article published by the website Globedia 
(www.globedia.com); and (6) an interview with the magazine Revista Ophelia. He claims that most 
of the sources cited above qualify as major media or major trade publications, while he describes 
Revista Ophelia as a professional publication 
The Petitioner did not submit sufficient comparative circulation or distribution data to support his 
claim that he and has work have been featured in major media and/or major trade publications. 8 
However, we find that he meets this criterion based on the article titled 'I I I t published by Revista Ophelia in 2018. The record supports his claim 
that this magazine is a professional publication in his field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner maintains that he has played a leading or critical role "for his own painting 
establishment" as well as fon I, I 11 I ~ Galleries, and 
and that the evidence demonstrates that these are "distinguished 
organizations." In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent 
by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical 
role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. 
On appeal, the Petitioner specifically emphasizes his "leading roles" withl 1,1 I 
c=J, and I I and his leading role "in his own establishment," which he claims the 
Director failed to consider. 
Although not initially claimed under this criterion, the Petitioner stated in response to the RFE that he 
plays a "leading or critical role for his business of the creation of art" noting that such business 
"constitutes an establishment that has a distinguished reputation." 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
9 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he "performed in a leading or 
critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." (emphasis 
added). The Petitioner did not establish that he, as an individual, qualifies as an "organization" or 
"establishment." The Petitioner's argument that "artists serve as their own establishment" because 
they rely on their "own skills and abilities" and "play a leading role to create a successful masterpiece" 
is not persuasive. Although he cites to the dictionary definitions of "organization" and "establishment" 
he does not explain how the work of an individual artist meets the cited definitions of either term. 
The Petitioner also provided letters from yrious greries that have exhibited his work. I " I 
director and founder o~ !Gallery in Venezuela, confirms that the Petitioner's paintings 
were on permanent display between 2007 and 2012, noting that the permanent exhibition "enjoyed 
great acceptance by our customers" and "commercial success." He states that the Petitioner's artwork 
"sold quickly, and with a higher price compared to the artworks of other similar artists" in the same 
genre, which is why "his work was exhibited for so many years in a row." Whilel Is letter 
discusses other aspects of the Petitioner's career and achievements, he offers no farther information 
regarding how he played a leading or critical role for thel !Gallery. 
The Petitioner asserts that an artist who is earning more than other artists and whose work is selling 
faster "is absolutely vital to a gallery," that "those are precisely the types of artists that galleries want 
to represent," and why he "played a leading and critical role for the gallery." However,! Is 
letter does not establish that the Petitioner's role as an artist represented by the gallery was "leading" 
based on his title, placement in the organization, or his duties, nor does he provide sufficient 
information to establish that the success of the Petitioner's former permanent exhibition was of 
significant importance to the outcome of the gallery's activities to the extent that his role was deemed 
critical. 
With res~ect to his role withl I Gallery, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I J who confirms that that the Petitioner was one of 166 figurative artists invited.__b_y.,...l -----1 
to create a 20 cm by 20 cm original piece for an exhibition titled "20 aiios en 20 x 20" to celebrate the 
gallery's 20th anniversary. I I highlights some of the well-known artists who created 
artwork for this exhibition, praises the Petitioner's work, and indicates that I I intends to include 
him among the 100 artists it will feature in the 2020 edition of the annually published art bookl I I I The Petitioner claimed that because each artist in the I !anniversary exhibition "was 
chosen with care based on the highest standards," all of the participating artists, including the 
Petitioner, "play a leading and critical role for the organization." While we acknowledge that it has 
an honor for the Petitioner to be invited to participate in the gallery's 20th anniversary exhibition, the 
evidence does not establish how his involvement in one past event, among 159 other artists, establishes 
his leading or critical role for this well-established gallery. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml ~irector ofl Is ,j,___ ____ __. 0' who comments on I ts relationship with the Petitioner. As noted, the record reflects 
tha~ I represents more than 60,000 artists and has sold work to more than 12 million 
collectors worldwide. In her letter,I !confirms that I I sold 10 of the Petitioner's 
original artworks and 11 prints since 2013, and notes that, because its curators appreciate the 
Petitioner's work, they have selected his work for nine of their curated online collections. She also 
emphasizes his "Artist of the Day" selection, and notes that he was one of 103 artists selected to 
10 
participate in I I in 2019. Finally, I I states that the Petitioner's artwork 
"particularly as of 2019" comes with "a substantially high price tag," noting that in recognition of 
these prices, he was twice selected among the "Sales of the Week." She concludes that, for all of these 
reasons," the Petitioner "has played and continues to play an important role forl t' as his 
"works have been sought by our clients and his paintings have sold successfully over the course of 
many years." 
Whilel lrefers to the Petitioner's role as "important," we note thatl I sells millions 
of pieces and represents tens of thousands of artists. The evidence does not support a conclusion that 
every artist highlighted in some way the organization's curators, even on several occasions, has a 
"leading role" in the organization, or that the Petitioner has contributed to the organization in a way 
that has been of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's activities Thp evidence 
indicates that the organization's curators admire the Petitioner's work and that[ ]has sold a 
number of his paintings and prints. However, the evidence submitted is insufficient to demonstrate 
that his contributions rise to the level of a role that is leading or critical to the organization. 
On a eal the Petitioner briefly mentions his "leading or critical role forLJGalleries andl~-~ 
r-----_,_ __ _J' by "providing high quality artwork that sells at high prices." A letter from 
general director o±1 I, confirms that they contacted the Petitioner in 2016 ~----~ to exhibit his paintings in the gallery. She notes that "w~ all the artworks on display (two 
large oil paintings)" and "are waiting for new paintings." of0Galleries states that the 
Petitioner "is one of the very few who I wanted to display at Galleries due to the quality and 
extraordinary talent de demonstrates," and indicates that he is a "tremendous asset to the gallery," 
which displays 1500 original works by 150 artists. Both I I and I f go on to discuss 
the Petitioner's other achievements and genre of art, but they do not offer further details that would 
demonstrate how the Petitioner has played a role that was leading or critical for their respective 
galleries simply by exhibiting his work there. 
While the Petitioner provided evidence in support of his claim that some of the galleries discussed 
above enjoy a distinguished organization in his field, the evidence does not demonstrate his leading 
or critical role these organizations or establishments. Accordingly, he has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner claimed that he is highly compensated for the sale of his paintings. The Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner provided some evidence related to the sale of his work but noted that 
the record lacks sufficient documentation of his previous earnings ( such as tax documents) and 
comparative data regarding the remuneration that other artists receive for comparable work, and 
therefore did not demonstrate that his remuneration is significantly high in relation to others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that he provided a 2018 Contemporary Art Market Report 
compiled by Artprice which establishes that he commands significantly high remuneration for his 
paintings, and he now submits the 2019 edition of this report. He also emphasizes that he submitted 
letters froml ll . l I I ancic:::=:ballery which corroborate his 
claim that his work "sells for substantially more than othetj I painters." 
11 
The Petitioner has documented the sales price for only two of his paintings which sold in May 2019 
for $10,387 and $9,010, respectively. While the letters from galleries referenced in his appeal brief 
mention that his paintings gamer a relatively high price compared to similar artwork, they do not 
include any figures and therefore do not provide evidence of his past remuneration for his work. 
Further, we note tha~ I representing I I noted that the Petitioner's sales prices are 
higher "particularly as of 2019 ," thus suggesting that he has not consistently earned the documented 
amounts for his artwork. 
According to the 2019 Artprice Contemporary Market Report, "the vast majority of Contemporary 
paintings are relatively affordable with 74% changing hands for under $5,000." The 2018 edition of 
the report mentions that "the average price of a successfully auctioned Contemporary artwork has risen 
from $8,400 at the tum of the 2isr century to $28,000 today" and indicates that 80% of artwork sold 
at $8,053 and under. While these figures establish that the Petitioner gamers higher remuneration than 
many artists, they do not establish that he has commanded significantly high remuneration in relation 
to others. Further, the Artprice market reports are limited to data for contemporary artwork sold at 
auction; the submitted evidence does not establish how prices for artwork sold at auction compare to 
prices for similar artwork sold by galleries, and the Petitioner has not provided evidence of 
remuneration he received for artwork sold at auction. 
Overall, the Petitioner provided limited documentation of his past remuneration of his artwork, and 
insufficient comparative information to establish that he commands significantly high remuneration 
in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
C. Reserved Issue 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether his entry would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States, as required by section 203(b )(1 )(A)(3) of the Act. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is a talented artist who is highly regarded by collectors and gallery 
12 
owners who display his work, has achieved finalist and honorable mention status in some significant 
art competitions and has enjoyed increasing attention from art-related media. However, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work and achievements at the time of filing is indicative of 
the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 05, 2024 In Re: 32495259 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a music producer and director, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or that he meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that they meet 
at least three of the ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have 
received, published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, 
among other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a music producer who specializes in the Christian (Catholic) music genre. He has 
founded 
music groups, and through his business I I has organized, produced, and 
promoted concerts at several venues. 
We note that the Petitioner indicated in Part 6 of Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
that his job title is music director, and he later described the duties of his work as music 
director/producer in the religious context. He also submitted evidence ofhis previous work as a music 
producer and director engaged in the organization and direction of concerts and the production of 
songs and albums in the religious music genre. We will not narrow the Petitioner's field to the limited 
fields of religious, Christian, or Catholic music production and direction, rather than the field ofmusic 
production and direction as a whole. To hold otherwise would render meaningless the requirement 
that a petitioner be among the small percentage of the very top of their field by allowing a petitioner 
to narrow their field until they rank among the top of a small group in that "field." See Buletini v. INS, 
860 F.Supp. 1222, 1229 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (finding that the petitioner's field was medical science 
rather than nephrology). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
same five evidentiary criteria he previously claimed. After reviewing all ofthe evidence in the record, 
we conclude that he does not meet the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification. 
2 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, the evidence must show that the petitioner received a prize 
or award, that the prize or award was granted for excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the 
prize or award is recognized in the field at the national or international level. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that in 2019 and 2020, he was named as "Catholic Producer of the 
Year" by the 
Nicaragua. In her decision, the Director concluded that because these appeared 
to be regional honors, they were not nationally or internationally recognized. On appeal, the Petitioner 
refers to evidence in the record that shows 
_____ in Nicaragua, and that the focus of the I lis evangelization through arts and 
culture on a national level. We agree that the evidence does not show that either the scope or potential 
pool of candidates for the award are limited to a particular region of Nicaragua. 
However, although the Petitioner asserts that the I Ihas the authority to grant the award "to any 
individual within the nation of Nicaragua," the nature of the award limits the potential pool of 
candidates to those music producers who have produced music in the Catholic music subgenre in the 
past year. This limitation is seen in the criteria for the award, as stated in a letter from one of the 
members of the I Iwho indicates that winners are selected based upon "audio and image quality, 
dissemination, integration, social perception, and evangelization content." The committee member 
also goes on to state that the Petitioner's music production using digital platforms "permitted that our 
evangelization and comforting message reached thousands of people," shedding further light on the 
reasons the Petitioner received the award. A second letter from the same individual states that the two 
candidates for this award in both 2019 and 2020 were selected because they " have devoted themselves 
to Catholic productions." This inherent limitation on the pool of competitors for this award excluded 
those music producers working in Nicaragua in music genres not focused on evangelism ofa particular 
religious belie±: thus limiting recognition of this award to those in its same genre. 
In addition, the plain language ofthis criterion calls for evidence ofan award's national or international 
recognition in the field of endeavor. Here, the record does not include documentary evidence of the 
recognition of the Catholic Producer of the Year Award in the broader field of music production 
beyond the issuing organization. For both of these reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that this award is nationally recognized in his field of endeavor. 
Another award received by the Petitioner is the Alma Mater Prize, which he received at the 
IArts Festival inl 12000 from the ____________ in 
Nicaragua. The certificate indicates that he received the prize in the category of musical performance, 
and that he was recognized as a solo instrumentalist. A letter from an official of the elaborates 
that the organization awarded the Petitioner at the festival for his piano performance, and other 
evidence states that the is composed of ten member universities and three unions. 
The Director concluded that the Alma Mater Prize was not nationally recognized. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that because the is ais a national organization with member universities across 
Nicaragua, "any award issued by the should be considered national in scope." We first note that 
3 I 
the is an organization "that supports and advises higher education," and the Petitioner has not 
shown that the awards it issues are considered nationally or internationally significant by those in the 
field of music production. Second, while the Petitioner submitted a single newspaper article which 
reported on the results of the same festival in which he competed, the record does not include further 
information about the reach or circulation of the newspaper in which it was published, or additional 
articles in other media that might show recognition on a broader scale. Accordingly, the record does 
not show that this award is nationally or internationally recognized in the Petitioner's field of 
endeavor. 1 
Additional certificates were included in the record which acknowledge the Petitioner's work in 
organizing and producing concerts and other music projects, but he does not assert on appeal that any 
of these constitute nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. We therefore conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made 
original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here the Petitioner submitted several reference letters in support of his contribution to the field of 
music production and direction, and he highlights sections from some of them on appeal. 2 He asserts 
that the letters show that through his work as a music producer and director he "has changed the 
landscape ofreligious music as Nicaraguans know it." A letter from an official of the I I 
Theater in I I Nicaragua confirms that the Petitioner conducted two concerts at this 
venue, in 2011 and 2015, featuring a variety ofwell-known Nicaraguan artists. The official states that 
this was an "innovative artistic proposal" that showed "that there was a Christian market segment that 
had been ignored," and that these concerts opened "a new path in national production." But while the 
record includes certificates which verify the Petitioner's role in these performances, the statements 
regarding the Petitioner's influence on religious music or the field of music production are not 
supported by documentary evidence showing that the Petitioner's work was novel or innovative and 
that it influenced other music producers. 
Another letter was written by F-L-M-G-, an artist and musician, who states that the Petitioner's 
"orchestra" ( apparently referring to the musical group founded and directed by the Petitioner, I ) 
performed at his foundation's "cultural house." He goes on to write that the Petitioner's work inspired 
his "thirst to serve God," and that the Petitioner "is the only producer who has had the capacity and 
motivation to gather many songwriters and singers at several artistic locations." While the letter 
1 We also note that the Petitioner received this award for his piano playing, not for his skills or perfo1mance as a music 
producer. It was therefore not granted to him based upon excellence in his stated field of endeavor. 
2 We have reviewed and considered all of the reference letters in the record, including those not specifically mentioned in 
this decision. 
4 
confirms that the Petitioner's acted as a producer at this venue, the assertion that he is the only music 
producer able to produce events featuring multiple artists is not supported in the record. 
The Archbishop __________ also submitted a reference letter on the Petitioner's 
behalf: which notes that he has served the Catholic church as a music producer for his entire career. 
He explains that the Petitioner's work as a music producer has been important for evangelization in 
his archdiocese, and that the Petitioner "is the main exponent of catholic music in Nicaragua." But as 
we stated above, we will not narrow our consideration ofthe Petitioner's field ofendeavor to the extent 
that he is one of only a very small number of those in that field. While the Petitioner's work as a 
producer for music groups in the Christian/Catholic music genre may be valuable to the Catholic 
church as a means of evangelization, the Archbishop's letter does not evidence its influence on the 
field of music production. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that he has made his mark on the development of religious music in 
Nicaragua, and refers to a letter from the President of _______________I lwhich states that his work and the awards he has received have inspired current students of 
the school, his alma mater. Although the letter lists the Petitioner's achievements as a musician and 
musical director of the band I I these contributions are limited in their in their impact and 
significance to the university and the band, and thus do show significance in the broader field ofmusic 
production. 
These letters show that the Petitioner has performed as a musician and as a producer and director at 
venues in Nicaragua, and that he has made contributions to organizations through his work in the 
Christian/Catholic music genre. But they do not establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field of music production, and he therefore does not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
In her decision, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had submitted evidence that he had 
produced and advertised musical performances, but concluded that this evidence was not of the type 
called for in the plain language of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
erred in not considering evidence of the number of views of his videos as comparable evidence under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
We first note that the Petitioner's representative does not refer to specific evidence in the record to 
support his assertion that "one of his latest videos has over 184,00 views." Counsel's unsubstantiated 
assertions do not constitute evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) 
("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any 
evidentiary weight"). 
In addition, although the Petitioner asserts that the Director should have considered other evidence in 
the record regarding the concerts and songs he has produced as evidence of his commercial success in 
the performing arts, he did not meet his burden of showing that the types ofevidence listed in the plain 
language of this criterion were not applicable to his occupation. He referenced the comparable 
5 
evidence provision in responding to the Director's request for evidence, but the Petitioner did not 
address this requirement with respect to this criterion at that time and still does not on appeal, other 
than to refer to "antiquated ideas of commercial success." Nevertheless, the evidence showing that 
the Petitioner did produce compact disks, both his own and that ofother artists, as well as live concerts, 
would have refuted any claims that the evidence of sales figures related to those works do not apply 
to his occupation. As the Petitioner did not submit evidence meeting the plain language of this 
criterion, he has not established that he has enjoyed commercial success in the performing arts. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Per the analysis above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of three of the 
five evidentiary criteria he has claimed on appeal. Although he claims eligibility for two additional 
criteria on appeal, relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), he cannot fulfill the initial 
evidence requirement of meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Since the 
identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby 
reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding the additional criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on 
issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim 
and recognition as amongst the very top of his field required for the classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 6, 2024 In Re: 32867353 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biostatistician researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he had received a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) or 
that he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required for the requested 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievemen ts in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a Ph.D. in biostatistics and is currently employed withl Iwhere 
he designs clinical studies of chronic pain. He states that he is "one of the few leading statistical 
genetics experts in biostatistics , ... especially well-known for his work in identifying rare disease 
variants, COVID-19 testing procedures , and the health impacts of environmental pollutants ." He also 
developed the method of statistical genetic analysis. He seeks to continue his work as 
a senior advisor in statistics in the United States. Since he does not claim to have a one-time 
achievement, he must submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
The Petitioner initially claimed that he met three of these criteria: 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance ; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), notifying the Petitioner that the evidence in the 
record did not demonstrate that he met any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director 
allowed the Petitioner an opportunity to submit additional evidence to demonstrate that he satisfied at 
least one more of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence asserting that he meets the 
following criteria: 
• (iv), Participating as a judge of the work of others in the field; 
2 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Performing in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that 
have a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), Commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, 
in relation to others in the field. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner demonstrated that he met only two 
of the claimed criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , participating as a judge of the work of others, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
authorship of scholarly articles. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
satisfied these two criteria. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed but did not submit sufficient evidence establishing 
that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field; that he has performed in a 
leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation ; and that he has commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v) , (viii), (ix). The Director concluded that, because the Petitioner did not establish that 
he met at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), it was not necessary to conduct a final 
merits determination to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized indicating that he is one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the previously submitted evidence was sufficient to establish 
that he satisfied these additional criteria. He also submits additional evidence in support of his claims. 
After reviewing the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, and met the first step in the required 
analysis. 
Contrary to the Director's decision, we find sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's "original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Under this criterion, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has made 
original contributions in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2) App'x, 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the Agency then considers the contributions' significance . Id. 
Contributions do not necessarily have major significance just because they are original. Id. A 
petitioner must submit evidence of their importance , such as their generation of widespread 
commentary , notice from others working in the field, or citations. Id. 
In both the RFE and the decision, the Director appeared to acknowledge the Petitioner's original 
scientific contributions, stating, "While your research may show you have novel or original 
contributions , the record does not establish that your research has ascended to major significance ." 
However , the Director contradicts this statement in the decision, stating, "You did not submit sufficient 
independent, objective evidence that your contributions are 'original' and have significantly 
influenced the field." 
3 
The Petitioner states that his development of the tools and other 
methodologies for data analysis are original contributions of major significance to the field of 
biostatistics . He asserts that use of his methodologies has led to "discoveries related to polygenic risk 
scores, COVID -19 testing procedures, and the identification of genes and rare variants." 
The record establishes the Petitioner's original contributions to the field. Evidence in the record 
demonstrates that the Petitioner's methodologies have been used in data analysis of studies involving 
human ovarian aging, trait and disease heritability, measuring the risk of harm from enviromnental 
pollutants, and COVID-19 data. 
The Director acknowledged letters from other researchers pra1smg the Petitioner's skillset and 
research. However, the Director detennined that the letters did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
contributions are both original and of major significance in the field. The Director stated that the 
record did not include corroborating documentary evidence to establish the major significance of the 
Petitioner's work. The Director further stated, "[L]etters, though not without weight, cannot form the 
cornerstone of a successful claim of extraordinary ability." 
The Director overlooked evidence of the significance of the Petitioner's original contributions . The 
Petitioner submitted documentation demonstrating that, from 2017 to 2024, he ranked in the 99.96% 
citation percentile in the field of biostatistics . Additionally, five of the Petitioner's scholarly articles 
presenting his methodologies rank in the top 10% of most-cited articles in the field. Two of the five 
articles rank in the top 1 %. This and other evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner's original research 
has significance . 
Letters from other researchers indicate that the imp01tance of the Petitioner's original research is 
substantial. A professor and researcher with __________ praised the Petitioner's research 
on data analysis using the I lmethod. The professor stated that the Petitioner's ! I I Imethod is "a critical contribution to biobank data analysis, improving the ability of researchers 
everywhere to analyze the genetic factors involved in a myriad of diseases and health conditions." An 
associate professor and researcher at _____________ _, states that he used the 
Petitioner's I lmethod of data analysis in his study on complex genetic traits in East Asian and 
European populations. Describing the major significance of the Petitioner's work, he stated, "His 
work has played an important role in increasing not only the accuracy, but also the equity, of genetic 
research." 
Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated original scientific 
contributions of major significance to the field of biostatistics . With meeting this additional criterion, 
the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has 
overcome the basis for the denial of his petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision. Because the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it 
is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to establish 
eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of 
the petition. 
4 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. On remand, the Director 
should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety, including the evidence submitted 
on appeal, to make a final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner met the preliminary evidentiary requirements ofthe requested immigrant visa category. 
USCIS must now determine whether he has demonstrated extraordinary ability in his field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 6, 2024 In Re: 30967695 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is an athlete who seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a "musher," the person who drives a team of dogs in a dogsledding competition. She 
has achieved top placements and finishes in various dogsledding categories. 
A. One-time Achievement 
In the initial filing before the Director, the Petitioner claimed I I first place finishes is a one-time achievement of the sort that establishes el i gibility for 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability." She provided photographs of certificates and 
medals, as well as ______ rankings for the 2017 International Federation of Sleddog 
Sports (IFSS), results from other events such as the 2016-2017 I and letters from the IFSS 
president and vice president. 1 
After the Director notified the Petitioner the submitted material did not rise to the standard of a 
one-time achievement, she offered revised letters from those in the sport and media coverage of the 
competitions and championships. The Director concluded the awards were not major, internationally 
recognized awards. The Director acknowledged the evidence but found the Petitioner did not show 
that any of the media sources were at a level needed to show that her achievements were major, 
internationally recognized awards. 
In the appeal, the Petitioner claims the Director added substantive requirements to the one-time 
achievement concept effectively eliminating dogsledding. On this issue, the Director's analysis 
described the context in which a person might demonstrate that an award that rises to a one-time 
achievement "that is, a major, international recognized award." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The denial 
decision reflects: 
Given Congress's intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage ofindividuals 
who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting 
eligibility based on a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with 
only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. 
1 The IFSS is the primary dogsledding governing body worldwide. 
2 
See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 
1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited the Nobel Prize as an 
example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, international 
recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and ( most relevant for 
athletics) an Olympic Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, 
stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationally recognized award. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by 
Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of 
the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash 
prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a 
one-time achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the 
examples provided by Congress that the award must be global and internationally 
recognized in the field as one of the top awards. 
We disagree with the Petitioner when she asserts the Director added substantive requirements in the 
examples associated with Nobel Laureat selections. In fact, the Director stated that "an internationally 
recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those 
elements." As a result, the Director was not mandating every one of those factors be satisfied, or any; 
only that they were salient illustrations stemming from the one example we have within the legislative 
record. 
The Petitioner accuses the Director's approach of "effectively eliminating the field of sled dog racing 
(and a multitude of others) for which this means of qualification might occur." She continues 
discussing congress who, she asserts, did not elect to take an approach similar to the Director's, "likely 
because it would severely limit the range of fields in which and [sic] individual could qualify as an 
alien of extraordinary ability based on winning top awards in the field." 
But the Petitioner does not grapple with congress' creation of a highly restrictive requirement for an 
award that a person generally will only receive once in their lifetime, and the example the legislators 
offered was the Nobel Prize; although not every award must equal that stature. So, it was congress 
that set the bar so high for a one-time achievement which could result in some fields being precluded 
from consideration under that provision. Congress further indicated foreign nationals "can also qualify 
on the basis of a career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), 
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. And in response, the agency 
promulgated the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) that one may satisfy instead of 
a one-time achievement. 
Next, the Petitioner states that USCIS is required to focus on her standing in the field and claims it is 
the regulation and the statute implementing such a necessity. But the brief doesn't cite to what part of 
the statute or the regulation mandates such a requirement. The Petitioner then states the Director 
instead focuses solely on the award's public notoriety and that nothing in the statute or regulations or 
the slight reference in the House Report supports that approach. The broader context for this 
requirement is the awareness of award itself, and that it be "a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
international recognized award)." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If the proper focus is not supposed to be on 
the award's notoriety, we are unsure what the Petitioner attempts to alter it to within these proceedings. 
3 
Not all sports or fields issue awards that would qualify as a one-time achievement. For example, even 
though the following sports have a global or international governing body and include competitors 
from around the world, their awards are not widely covered by major international media outlets: 
tchoukball; kabaddi; or korfball. Even though the dogsledding sport may be slightly more familiar to 
the public than these examples, after reviewing the Petitioner's claims and evidence, it appears the 
events and competitions the Petitioner claims do not issue awards that would qualify as a one-time 
achievement. 
In situations where an award does not rise to a one-time achievement, a foreign national may still 
qualify for this highly restrictive immigrant classification by satisfying at least three of the regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The one-time achievement requirement is arguably the most 
difficult provision to satisfy within the most restrictive employment-based visa category in U.S. 
immigration law. And simply because a major, internationally recognized award may not exist in a 
particular field or sport, we should not moderate the regulation's one-time achievement requirements. 
Doing so would undermine its apotheosis, reduce the honor and prestige associated with achieving 
such a distinguished accolade, and diminish the value for those who have trnly earned it. Because the 
Petitioner appears unable to demonstrate any of her accomplishments qualify as a one-time 
achievement, this does not exempt her from meeting the high bar that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets. 
The Petitioner next turns her focus to claim that neither Congress nor the regulation limited qualifying 
awards to those that are broadly familiar to the public. With this contention, we disagree. Again, the 
example in the House Report was the Nobel Prize; widely known to the public. And the Director 
offered additional examples of "the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and (most relevant for 
athletics) an Olympic Medal." A common thread for each being they are well-known in the public 
beyond the issuing entities and broader than the award recipients' field. 
She argues that the proper question is what the award signifies regarding the individual's standing in 
the field relative to others, but she offers no support for this statement. In fact, comparing one's 
achievements to others in the field appears to be closer to what the regulation mandates that USCIS 
officers determine under the high salary or other significantly high remuneration criterion (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policyrnanual), and under the commercial success criterion (8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(x); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(l). And comparing a 
petitioner's standing in the field relative to others may also occur within a final merits determination 
(id. at F.2(B)(2)). 
Now in the appeal, the Petitioner states that she will "supplement the record here with additional media 
articles from various sources to reinforce that the IFSS championship events are well-recognized 
globally as the top international competitions in the field of sled dog racing." First and to reiterate, 
not all sports or fields will have awards recognizing one's efforts that rise to the level of a one-time 
achievement. Second, the Petitioner presents this statement without identifying what specific new 
evidence they are submitting, or more importantly how each form of evidence supports her claims of 
eligibility. 
Third, the Petitioner was put on notice of an evidentiary requirement (by statute, regulation, form 
instrnctions, request for evidence (RFE), etc.) and was given a reasonable opportunity to provide the 
4 
evidence. Except in exigent circumstances and at USCIS discretion, any new evidence submitted on 
appeal pertaining to this requirement will not be considered, and the appeal on this issue will be 
adjudicated based on the evidence in the record as it existed before the Director. See Matter of 
Furtado, 28 I&N Dec. 794, 801-02 (BIA 2024) and Matter of Izaguirre, 27 I&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 
2017) ( citing Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988)); see also Matter ofObaigbena, 
19 I&N Dec. 533, 537 (BIA 1988). If the Petitioner had wanted the submitted evidence to be 
considered, she should have submitted the documents when prompted and in response to the Director's 
RFE. Id. Under the circumstances, it is unnecessary to consider the sufficiency of this new evidence 
submitted on appeal. 
And even if we were to consider it, the majority of the material appears to be from an aggregating 
service that provides access to various resources, to include newspapers. She offered only that 
service's extraction of numerous articles without any supporting documentation regarding the entity 
that originally published each article. It is unclear what the Petitioner is asserting for this evidence 
other than to demonstrate that over the decades, sources from differing countries have published 
articles about dogsledding. This does not support her claims that her 
finishes amount to a one-time achievement. 
The remaining two forms of new evidence don't aid her in this effort either. The first is from an 
unidentified publisher titled~---------------------- and the 
second form of evidence appears to be from the IFSS website, but the document does not contain a 
Uniform Resource Locator (URL) that reflects the actual source. At any rate, neither of these 
documents demonstrate her accomplishments equate to a one-time achievement. 
The Petitioner's appeal brief twice mentions letters she submitted from those in the sport. Specifically, 
the Petitioner stated: "The primacy ofIFSS championships in the field is confirmed by several experts 
in the field, whose opinions are contained in the record." She further stated: "The decision noted in 
passing but did not discuss, the multiple opinions of experts in the field regarding the significance of 
[the Petitioner's] awards." That comprises all the Petitioner's statements on appeal relating to letters 
in the record and she offers no insight on which letters we should evaluate, nor for what content. 
In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration 
benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 
(BIA 2013). Commensurate with that burden is the responsibility for explaining the significance of 
proffered evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). Filing parties 
should not submit large quantities of evidence without notifying the appellate body of the specific 
documentation that corroborates their claims within such large material, as doing so places an undue 
burden on the appellate body to search through the documentation without the aid of the filing party's 
knowledge. Toquero v. INS, 956 F.2d 193, 196 n.4 (9th Cir. 1992). 
It is the filing party's responsibility to inform us of what errors the adjudicator committed and how 
their claims and evidence satisfy which eligibility requirements. Id.; Spear Mktg., Inc. v. 
BancorpSouth Bank, 791 F.3d 586,599 (5th Cir. 2015); S.E.C. v. Thomas, 965 F.2d 825, 827 (10th 
Cir. 1992); see also Harolds Stores, Inc. v. Dillard Dep't Stores, Inc., 82 F.3d 1533, 1540 n.3 (10th 
Cir. 1996) ( concluding that where the evidence in the record is voluminous, it is imperative that an 
appellant provide specific references to record); Uli v. Mukasey, 533 F.3d 950, 957 (8th Cir. 2008) 
5 
( citing to Matter of D-I-M-, 24 I&N Dec. 448, 451 (BIA 2008) and noting when a case includes 
voluminous background materials, it is necessary to specifically identify the material one relies on to 
come to their conclusion). 
But even if we made our way through the file reviewing each letter, we note that because we have 
already determined that the Petitioner has not described what evidence adequately supports the 
prospect that her accolades are "a one-time achievement (that is, a major, international recognized 
award)," letters from those in the industry will generally be insufficient to make such a demonstration 
as they will effectively contain claims that are not corroborated elsewhere in the record. 
USCIS may-in its discretion-use statements from others in the field that were submitted as expert 
testimony as advisory statements. See Matter ofCaron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 
1988). However, USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final determination regarding a 
foreign national's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of letters from experts 
supporting a petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility. USCIS may give less weight to an 
opinion that is not corroborated, is not in accord with other information, or is in any way 
questionable. See id. at 795; see also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, 502 n.2 (BIA 2008) (noting 
that expert opinion testimony does not purport to be evidence as to "fact"). 2 Because the Petitioner 
has failed to identify the letters or discuss their content she relies on, we will not address the letters in 
detail here. 
For all of the reasons stated above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not received a one-time 
achievement that is, a major, internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met three of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to lesser prizes 
or awards and performing in a leading or critical role, but that she had not satisfied the criteria 
associated with membership. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets the membership 
criterion. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director on each of the 
criteria discussed above. 
2 We note that one element of the V-K-decision was overruled within Matter ofZ-Z-O-, 26 I&N Dec. 586 (BIA 2015); 
however, this does not affect the portion of V-K-we cite to here. The Z-Z-O-decision clearly limited its adverse treatment 
of the V-K-decision to the issue of "an Immigration Judge's predictive findings of what may or may not occur in the 
future ..." Z-Z-O-, 26 I&N Dec. at 590, which was related to the standard of review when evaluating an Immigration 
Judge's findings relating to an asylum applicant's reasonable fear claims. The Z-Z-O-decision made no mention of the 
evidentiary weight of expert testimony. The limit to the overruling nature of Z-Z-O-is illustrated within a footnote in 
which the BIA stated that other than the standard of review for predictive factual findings, it did not address and would 
not disturb other conclusions in the V-K-decision. Z-Z-O-, 26 l&N Dec. at 593 n.3. Consequently, the portion of the 
V-K-decision cited above remains effective. 
6 
Documentation ofthe alien 's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both ofthe following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
The Petitioner claimed her membership as part of two dogsled teams. The Director determined that 
the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The Director only evaluated the United 
States Federation of Sleddog Sports (USFSS) team membership, but that may be due to the lack of 
clarity in the Petitioner's correspondence. Within the initial filing, she did not assert a claim under 
this criterion. And in a bulleted list responding to the Director's RFE, the cover letter only mentions 
she "was selected as a member oftwo associations (national sleddog racing teams)" without specifying 
which teams. 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses both the USFSS team and the Czech national dogsled team 
memberships. The only evidence the Petitioner offers relating to her place on the Czech national 
dogsledding team is the letter from Jiri Nesnera, the president ofthe "Czech association sleddog sports, 
z.s." The Petitioner did not submit evidence that this association and the Czech national dogsledding 
team are one and the same. This has an adverse effect on this evidence and it garners diminished 
evidentiary value. 
Even setting that aside, this letter does not establish that the Petitioner has met all of this criterion's 
requirements. Specifically, Mr. Nesnera states the Petitioner "is a member of Czech association 
sleddog sports, z.s. and for her high performance results and experiences in sleddog sports she was 2 
times joined to official Czech republic representants, and she had great results for our country." 
Although Mr. Nesnera indicates she was chosen to be a member of his association for her high 
performance, this does not mean that his association requires such high performances for all of its 
members. Nor does his letter establish his association uses that determination as a condition of 
eligibility for prospective membership. 
Turning to the USFSS team, the evidence the Petitioner provided from USFSS contained two sections: 
one for eligibility criteria, and one for selection criteria. Because of the regulation's plain language 
regarding "membership in associations ... which require outstanding achievements oftheir members," 
the eligibility criteria are the most important element because those specify who the USFSS will admit 
as members. Here, the eligibility criteria are: 
• The competitor or applicant must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident with an exception for 
anyone who doesn't fit those criteria requiring USFSS board approval; 
• Applicants must have a valid IFSS driver identification number; 
• The applicant must be a USFSS member in good standing with dues paid prior to filing the 
application; 
7 
• Preselected and non-preselected candidates must meet the application deadlines; and 
• In addition to the preselected candidates, USFSS will select three athletes per class based on 
performance results. 
Relating to the USFSS membership the Director stated: 
According to the summary of the USFSS Team USA Selection Rules, to be eligible a 
competitor must have a valid IFSS driver identification number, must be a USFSS 
members in good standing, and provide race results for the classes applied for. There 
is no requirements that a competitor or member have a significant or outstanding finish 
in a race, achieve a notable medal or any other evidence of outstanding achievement to 
qualify. While the petitioner may, or may not, have been chosen for her past successes, 
the eligibility requirements submitted with this petitioner do not require outstanding 
achievements of all members. 
The Petitioner's appeal briefretlects she provided the team selection criteria and she claims that past 
performance, especially in IFSSI !finishes are the primary factors 
in selection. But, in this particular case, because of the manner that USFSS organized its Official 
Selection Rules, the selection criteria are subordinate to the eligibility criteria. In other words, the 
eligibility criteria serve as the foundational requirements for team membership. These criteria are 
non-negotiable and must be met by all individuals seeking to join the team. In contrast, the selection 
criteria function as a secondary set of factors. They are applied only to candidates who have already 
satisfied the eligibility criteria and are used to determine the order of preference among qualified 
applicants. 
Despite the Petitioner refuting the Director's analysis and determination, we agree with the Director's 
decision. On appeal, the Petitioner does not argue which of the bulleted eligibility criteria above 
demonstrates the USFSS team requires outstanding achievements simply to qualify for consideration 
as a team member. And she is incorrect in the assertion that past performance, especially in IFSS 
______________ finishes are the primary factors that determine who can be a 
team member. Those considerations fall under the subordinate area of what the USFSS characterizes 
as the selection criteria, but it is their eligibility criteria that determines who can be a team member, 
and those criteria do not mandate outstanding achievements. 
"The petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in 
the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts." 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(l )). Based on the eligibility criteria, it is clear 
that the USFSS is not an association that holds such a requirement. 
And within the letter from the USFSS' former president, Mike Marsch, he discusses membership in 
the organization stating that "[i]in order to be selected for Team USA, previous competitive racing 
success at the highest level is key." Mr. Marsch went on to list some of the subordinate selection 
criteria that we have concluded are not determinative of who the team will accept as members. He 
further states the USFSS "board did in fact approve [the Petitioner] as a member of Team USA based 
upon her high achievements in international competition." The test as stated in the regulation is not 
the reason any one individual was approved as a member. Instead, it is what the organization mandates 
8 
for all candidates at the membership level the Petitioner is asserting. As a result, we do not find Mr. 
Marsch's correspondence to be any more persuasive than the USFSS' eligibility criteria listed in its 
Official Selection Rules. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. lO1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 06, 2024 In Re: 32607385 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Exceptional Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pastry chef, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by submitting 
evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; 
and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United 
States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastry chef who intends to continue working as such in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only the evidentiary criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to judging. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that they met six 
other evidentiary criteria. 1 After reviewing the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner 
does not meet at least three of the evidentiary criteria, and therefore does not meet the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. While we may not discuss every document submitted, we have 
reviewed and considered each one. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that they not only 
made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. 
For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
1 Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner did not assert, nor does the record show that he met the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vii), or (x), relating to membership, artistic display, or commercial success. We consider these 
issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
As a preliminary matter, the Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director acted "in violation of the 
due process oflaw" in finding him ineligible for this and other criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). But 
he does not identify the due process rights that are implicated in the adjudication of the Petitioner's 
extraordinary ability immigrant petition. See Lyng v. Payne, 476 U.S. 926, 942 (1986) (stating that 
"[w]e have never held that applicants for benefits ... have a legitimate claim of entitlement protected 
by the Due Process Clause of the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment."); see also Azizi v. Thornburgh, 
908 F .2d 1130, 1134 (2d Cir. 1990) ( explaining that the Fifth Amendment protects against the 
deprivation without due process of property rights granted to noncitizens; however, petitioners do not 
have an inherent property right in an immigrant visa). 
We acknowledge the Petitioner has incorporated several pages of narrative into the appeal brief from 
his response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) that discuss his work accomplishments. He 
generally asserts that the Director erred in determining that the evidence was insufficient to meet this 
criterion. However, based on our de novo review of the evidence and for the following reasons, we 
agree with the Director that the record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
The Director denied the petition in part, acknowledging that the Petitioner submitted several letters 
from employers and colleagues that generally praised his work, but concluded the letters were 
insufficient to show that he meets this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director did 
not adequately consider this evidence, asserting: 
Recognized experts in the confectionary and chocolate-making industry, both 
nationally and internationally, have acknowledged the significance of [the Petitioner's] 
methodology and pastry paste. His innovative contributions have not only expanded 
the possibilities within the field but have also elevated the artistry and quality of 
confectionery and chocolate creations, making him a trailblazer in this specialized 
domain. 
The Director explained in his decision that the letters fell short in substantiating the Petitioner's 
assertion that he had made contributions ofmajor significance to the confectionery field. For instance, 
he took note that the letters authored by individuals employed by ___________I I did not include the authors' contact information and thus did not meet the requirements for 
such letters at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l ). He also observed that the authors used identical language to 
vaguely describe the Petitioner's accomplishments and did not mention the Petitioner by name. 
Identical language in letters "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls 
into question the persuasive value of the letters' content." Hamal v. US. Dep 't ofHomeland Security, 
No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). We agree with the Director that these letters 
which simply offer identical generalized statements are of little probative value to the matter here. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
Other letters from the Petitioner's former employers offer insufficient support to the Petitioner's 
claims that he has made major significant contributions to the field. The authors discuss the ways in 
which he benefited their business operations, note that he has talent, and generally assert that he is a 
reliable, respectful employee. For instance, in the letter from a former employer, 
(F-), the owner indicates that the Petitioner was hired in 2009 as a baker-confectioner and was 
promoted in 2010 to "sous-chef of the confectionery shop," where he "effectively led three 
3 
subordinates." F-states that the Petitioner "competently developed and introduced new desserts, 
bread, and custom cakes into the restaurant menu," and "was never late for work, always kept 
confidentiality, did not conflict with other employees, and showed respect to others." But F-did not 
discuss any major significant contributions that the Petitioner has already made to the field. 
See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 393-394 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding that contributions which were 
not adopted beyond a petitioner's employer do not meet this criterion). As explained by the Director, 
the letter authors describe the Petitioner's work in a positive light, but do not suggest that his work has 
remarkably impacted or influenced the confectionery field. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to 
be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. Matter of Chawathe, supra. 
This criterion has not been met. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
For the purposes of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment. Additionally, the organizations or establishments must be marked by emmence, 
distinction, excellence, or a similar reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that he held a leading or critical role in a company that he owned abroad, M-, as 
its "founder and CEO." The Director requested documentary evidence to establish the leading and 
critical nature of the Petitioner's work with M-, along with probative evidence to show that M-enjoys 
a distinguished reputation. The Director determined that the Petitioner was ineligible for this criterion, 
because though the Petitioner asserted that M-"is one of the most preeminent and successful 
organizations in confectionery craftsmanship in Russia," the record lacked documentary evidence to 
substantiate the Petitioner's assertions. The Director determined, in part, that the Petitioner did not 
meet this criterion because he did not provide documentary evidence about M-in the RFE response to 
show that M-has a distinguished reputation. "Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes 
a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the [petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
In the RFE response, the Petitioner provided a letter from L-, CTO of M-, who indicated that he held 
general manager and pastry chef positions while employed there. The Director took note of the 
inconsistencies between the Petitioner's claims that he was founder and CEO of M-, and the 
information provided by L-in her letter submitted in the RFE response. He advised the Petitioner that 
he must resolve this inconsistency and ambiguity in the record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
On appeal the Petitioner does not address the Director's concerns regarding the inconsistencies in the 
record regarding his roles and responsibilities while employed abroad with M-. Rather, on appeal the 
Petitioner incorporates narrative discussing verbatim his accomplishments in the field from his 
response to the Director's RFE, and generally asserts that the Director erred in determining the 
evidence was insufficient to meet this criterion. The Petitioner has not supported his appeal by 
specifically identifying a law or policy that the Director may have incorrectly applied in determining 
that the Petitioner is ineligible for this criterion. This criterion is not met. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field. See Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate of income and taxation data to demonstrate his income in 2018, 
as well as some contractual documentation as evidence of the services that M-provided and several 
payments to M-for services rendered. He submitted information about the average salary for a pastry 
chef in the city where he was employed abroad, asserting that his compensation in that year was high. 
The Director determined that a comparison of the Petitioner's financial documentation with average 
salary statistics for pastry chefs working in that locale was insufficient to show that he has commanded 
a high salary or significantly high remuneration in relation to others in his field, noting that the 
Petitioner had not provided sufficient comparative information about the range of compensation 
earned by others in his field. 
On appeal the Petitioner does not address the Director's concerns regarding the lack of sufficient 
comparative salary data in the record. Instead, he offers the verbatim narrative that he included in his 
RFE response, which the Director considered in denying the petition. While the Petitioner generally 
asserts that the Director erred in concluding that he had not met the plain language of this criterion, he 
does not specifically identify a law or policy that the Director may have incorrectly applied in 
determining that the Petitioner is ineligible for this criterion. We agree that this criterion has not been 
met. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first element is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in the 
field in which he intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. 
We consider these articles to fall within two distinct areas. 
One relative area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, 
endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the 
concepts expressed in the article. The next area lies outside ofthe academic arena in which a scholarly 
article should be written for learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B. l, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
5 
The second evidentiary element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the 
following: (1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major 
media. Relevant factors a petitioner should demonstrate include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership are 
high relative to similar publications (for major trade publications and other major media). See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B. l. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner does not assert nor does the record establish that he has published an academic scholarly 
article which reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. The Petitioner 
initially submitted published material (that mostly constituted the Petitioner's recipes for baked 
goods), which did not adequately illustrate that they were scholarly articles, or that they were published 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner pointed to his "BBQ Cake Tutorial" which was 
published in C-magazine, a periodical which focuses on confectionery creations in 2019. The tutorial 
provided step-by-step instructions to make and decorate a barbeque-themed cake. The Petitioner also 
provided pages from C-' s website which indicate that it publishes a monthly printed magazine and 
offers digital subscriptions to its content. The Director determined that this tutorial did not meet the 
plain language of this criterion as a scholarly article for learned persons in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: 
USCIS' requirement for documentation to establish publication in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media is excessively rigid. [C-] magazine, 
where [the Petitioner's] work was featured, is a widely recognized publication in the 
confectionery industry meeting the criteria for a major media platform. 
We have reviewed the information provided about C-in the RFE response. While this material 
suggests that C-enjoys an international readership, the Petitioner has not provided comparative 
circulation information about C-'s publications, either on-line or in print, that would show that this 
magazine meets that plain language of this criterion regarding its standing as a media outlet. 
Additionally, the Petitioner has not substantiated that C-'s published materials are written for learned 
persons associated with the confectionery industry or for readership by confectionary enthusiasts in 
the general populace. We agree with the Director that this criterion has not been met. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, and thus does 
not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material about the Petitioner at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we need not 
reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
6 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 2 Accordingly, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that they are one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 06, 2024 In Re: 32494168 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a makeup artist and beauty training manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or, alternatively, by satisfying 
at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations. The Director further determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry would offer substantial prospective benefits to the 
United States. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business or athletics which has 
been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, the petitioner can demonstrate their 
one-time achievement (that is, receipt of a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must meet at least three ofthe ten evidentiary categories found 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality of the material provide in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24, F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
The Petitioner is a makeup artist who has worked in professional and managerial roles for well-known 
luxury beauty brands, most recently with _______ which employs the Beneficiary in 
its U.S. operations as beauty training manager for the Americas. The record reflects that he intends to 
continue working in this field. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three ofthe alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (vii), (viii) and (ix), summarized below: 
• Published material in professional or major trade publications or other major media; 
• Judging the work of others in the same or allied field; 
• Display of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• Leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation; and 
• High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix) 
by providing evidence that he has served in qualifying leading or critical role for an organization that 
has a distinguished reputation and has commanded a high salary for his services. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (v); however, the Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that he has 
participated as the judge of the work of others in his field, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not carefully review and consider the evidence 
and arguments he submitted in support of his claim that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(vii), noting that the decision does not acknowledge claims and evidence he submitted in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) which relate to this criterion. He also 
emphasizes that the Director failed to consider his assertion that he has participated as a judge of the 
work of others in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the evidence he submitted in support 
of his claim. 
Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case because the 
Director's decision is insufficient for review. The Petitioner correctly asserts that the Director's 
2 
decision does not reflect consideration of his claims and evidence with respect to the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), nor does it reflect that the Director considered the Petitioner's response to 
the RFE in evaluating whether the Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet this requirement, the petitioner does not have a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. Cf Matter of M-P-, 20 T&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision 
does not adequately address the claims and evidence submitted with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii), it does not fully explain the specific reasons for denial. Accordingly, we 
will remand the matter to the Director. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. The Director should also review the Petitioner's 
appellate briet: which further discusses the previously submitted evidence provided in support of the 
evidentiary criteria and addresses the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that 
his entry into the United States would offer substantial prospective benefits, as required by section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act. 
As noted, the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied two criteria. If the Director 
determines that he satisfied at least one additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the new decision 
should evaluate, based on the totality of the evidence in the record, whether he has demonstrated by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 6, 2024 In Re: 32979561 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive in the energy sector, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). 1 This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification as set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
A noncitizen is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
• They seek to enter the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; 
and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country. 
1 USCIS records show that the Petitioner is currently in the United States on an approved Form 1-129, Petition for 
Nonimmigrant Worker, (with receipt numbed in the classification of an alien of extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383,394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability in business based on 
his years of experience as a business executive in the energy sector, which included filling top 
positions such as vice president and deputy CEO and serving as chairman of the board at various 
entities within the energy sector. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets the six regulatory criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(iv), (vi), (viii), and (ix). The Director determined that the Petitioner 
demonstrated that he has performed in a leading or critical role with organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation and commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field, therefore 
satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). The record supports this determination. 
The Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not establish that he met any ofthe remaining 
criteria that he claimed, namely, the four criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3(ii)-(iv), and (vi). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three criteria and is otherwise eligible for the 
requested classification. He contends that the Director overlooked or disregarded certain evidence and 
applied requirements that are not indicated by the regulations or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services policy. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has met at least one additional criterion. 
Namely, the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not properly apply the 
preponderance of the evidence standard when reviewing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
which requires evidence demonstrating a petitioner's participation as a judge of the work of others in 
the same or an allied field. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). Although 
the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of a reference letter addressing this criterion, 
she deemed the evidence to be insufficient because the Petitioner "did not submit objective 
documentary evidence to substantiate the claims of the letter." The Director did not, however, assess 
the contents of the letter, which was written byl lwho was the event's moderator 
and, along with the Petitioner, helped organize the I I an international energy forum 
2 
"dedicated to prospective energy specialists under 35 years of age." Mr. I I described the 
Petitioner as a "leading energy expert" possessing a comprehensive understanding of "all variety of 
energy markets" and thus capable of serving as a jury member who judged teams in a competition. 
Mr.I !elaborated on the forum's competition, stating that it involved participating teams who 
were tasked with "formulating their visionary analysis of future developments, creating a collective 
'foresight' for the energy industry." As a member of the judging panel, the Petitioner's role was to 
"diligently assess and score the final teams' submissions." 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to the previously submitted letter and asserts that the criterion in 
question has been satisfied. We conclude that the Director did not fully assess the previously 
submitted evidence and agree with the Petitioner's assertion that he has satisfied the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
With eligibility under the additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of his 
petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the 
initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. USCIS must now 
determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. The Director did not make any initial final merits determination, and we decline to make that 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety to make 
a final merits determination. In the final merits determination, the Director should weigh the evidence 
submitted in support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), any other 
relevant evidence in the record, and the Petitioner's claims and evidence on appeal to determine 
whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized 
achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF H-L-E-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a jazz pianist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding the Petitioner had satisfied two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b) of the Act states in pertinent part: 
(1) Priority workers. --Visas shall first be made available ... to qualified immigrants 
who are aliens described in any of the following subparagraphs (A) through (C): 
(A) Aliens with extraordinary ability. -An alien is described in this subparagraph 
if-
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
Matter of H-L-E-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a jazz pianist who has performed individually and with multiple ensembles. As the 
Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the 
Petitioner had met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria; published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he fulfills five criteria. Upon review of all of the evidence, 
we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that his receipt of the third prize in the 2016 I I competition as a member 
of thel I and second prize at the 2004 I I national piano competition 
meets this criterion. In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his prizes or 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 1 In regard to his third 
prize award in the I I competition, the Petitioner provided a press release regarding his 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
Matter of H-L-E-
ensemble's receipt of the 2016 award, three articles from the Detroit Free Press, Houston Press, and 
National Public Radio' sl I, and a letter from the University of1 !School of Music 
dean discussing the competition. Although the Petitioner provided three articleyeferrinf to the grand 
prize, he did not submit documentation to establish that a third place prize at the Competition 
is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 2 
Concerning the second prize at the 2004 .__ ______ _.national piano competition, the Petitioner 
submitted a letter from the artistic and musical director for the 2004 competition and a picture of a 
trophy labeled "II Festival I I 2 Lugar N acional." While the letter from I I 
discusses the Petitioner's receipt of the award and the competition's prestige, the record does not 
establish that his 2004 second prize award received national or international recognition for excellence 
in the field. For example, the record does not contain evidence that the second place prize garnered 
media attention or is otherwise nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We note that the Director's decision states without explanation that the Petitioner provided sufficient 
documentation to satisfy this criterion. As explained below, upon de nova review of the record, we 
find the Petitioner has not provided published material about him in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, which included the title, date, and author. 3 Therefore, he has not 
satisfied its requirements. 
The Petitioner provided articles and album reviews from various publications, such as Epoch Times 
and Downbeat. Thou h the article and 
album review are about the 
Petitioner, the evidence does not demonstrate the publications qualify as major media. The Petitioner 
offered printouts from Similar Web regarding the publications' rankings and "traffic overview." 
Similar Web reflects that the websites range from a global ranking of 8,052 to 900,667; a country 
ranking of 251 to 308,276; and total visits of 13,090,000 to 64,430. The Petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate the significance of the Internet rankings and viewing statistics or explain how such 
information reflects status as major media. 
While the articles and album reviews from London Jazz News, Jazz Trail, Jazz Weekly, Jay Harvey 
Upstage, The Phillipian, and Jazz da Gama are about the Petitioner, the record does not include 
evidence regarding the qualifying nature of the publications. Further, the Latin Beat Magazine article, 
"Annual Panama Jazz Fest Puts Accent on Education," was not specifically about the Petitioner. 
Rather, it was about a jazz festival in which he participated, only briefly mentioning him as one of the 
2 We note that thel I competition only began in 2016 and has since been terminated. Seel !chamber Music 
Competition, http://! , ~du/index.html#about (last accessed on July 30, 2019, and incorporated into the record). 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Matter of H-L-E-
musicians. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Jazz Chill article does not 
include the author of the material, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence demonstrating it is a qualifying publication. 4 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record contains evidence showing that the Petitioner participated as a judge of musicians at jazz 
festivals. Therefore, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he performed before audiences at concerts and other 
music events. As such, the Petitioner has established that he fulfills the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he "has played a leading and critical role" with the ._I ____ ___. 
and I I As it relates to a leading role, the .__ _____________ _, 
evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, 
can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 5 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 6 
Regarding the Petitioner's claim that he performed a critical role for theDfrom 2017 to present as 
the "only faculty member responsible for the I I Jazz Ensemble," he refers to letters from 
various individuals including I I Jazz Department faculty member, andl I 
a jazz pianist anLJ educator. 7 I I states that the Petitioner's "abilities as a jazz pianist are 
unmatched within our industry," "his abilities as a composer and jazz educator are also unrivaled," 
and he "serves in a critical role as a faculty member for the success of the I I Jazz Department." I I indicates that the Petitioner "is a remarkable jazz pianist" and is "without question one of 
the finest jazz pianists" he has worked with. While the authors speak positively of the Petitioner's 
4 Id. 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 Id. 
7 While we discuss a sampling of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
Matter of H-L-E-
talents as an educator and musician, they lack detailed and probative information about the Petitioner's 
role and its impact on the organization to determine that it was critical. 8 
The Petitioner also contends that his experience as a founding member, the only pianist, and one of 
two South American musicians constitutes a critical role for thd I The record contains 
documentation confirmin~ Is third prize award in the 2016 I I competition and his 
role as its only pianist. In addition, the Petitioner provided a concert program regarding the ensemble's 
performance atl ~ that discusses his contributions as the group's Brazilian pianist. 
Similarly, the Petitioner asserts that he played a critical and leadin& role as the only pianist with the 
.__ ______ -,-1----e_n_se_m_b--,le. He submitted documentation reflectingl I' invitation 
to perform at the.__ __ ___.Festival and several articles that discuss the event and its artici ants. For 
example, the San Diego Tribune article s I t noted~-------~ with the Petitioner as the ensemble's pianist, will 
perform at the festival. 
While the Petitioner has established that he played a critical role in the I land theD I l the record does not contain supporting documentation to show that the groups have a 
distinguished reputation, marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 9 Without sufficient 
corroborative documentation, the Petitioner has not established that the ensembles enjoy distinguished 
reputations, as required by the regulation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has failed to submit the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. The appeal will be 
dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for 
the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofH-L-E-, ID# 3680190 (AAO Aug.7, 2019) 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF P-G-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a microbial ecologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief asserting that she fulfills at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
Matter of P-G-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitio1er was working as a nostdocforal research associate in the Department 
of Entomology at University of.__ _________ _,. Because the Petitioner has not indicated 
or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the 
Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria: judging under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects 
that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts and authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the 
judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets four additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that she 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner provided evidence indicating that she is a member of Entomological Society of America 
(ESA), Association of Women in Science, National Postdoctoral Association, and Ecological Society 
2 
Matter of P-G-
of America (ESOA) 1, but she has not demonstrated that membership in these associations required 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For example, 
while the Petitioner offered documentation pertaining to the ESOA, including its constitution, bylaws, 
and information about its "Board of Professional Certification," this evidence is not sufficient to show 
that her "Certified Ecologist" designation required outstanding achievements. Rather, the evidence 
indicates that this ESOA certification is determined based on education, experience, and "the ability 
to perform professional work in ecology."2 Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As evidence for this criterion, the Petitioner presented various research articles that cite to her scholarly 
works. These articles are about the authors' scientific findings and not the Petitioner. 3 Here, the 
citations to the Petitioner's work do not constitute published material about her consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 4 She has not established therefore that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted her publications and presentations, citation 
evidence for her published work, and letters of recommendation from colleagues. The Director 
considered this documentation, but found that it was not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
1 The Petitioner received "certification at the Ecologist level" rrom the ESOA. 
2 According to ESOA's "Professional Ecologist Certifications" guidelines, the requirements for Certified Ecologist are: 
"A master's or higher degree in ecology or a related science from an accredited college or university and at least two (2) 
years of full-time equivalent professional experience after degree; OR at least five (5) years of professional experience in 
addition to the education requirement for Associate Ecologist; and [i]n addition to the I-year experience requirement for 
Associate Ecologist. candidates must also demonstrate the ability to perform professional work in ecology such as 
independent studies, complex data analyses, and publication of scientific journal articles, reports, or oral presentations 
must follow completion of the education requirement for qualification at the Ecologist level. Relevant experience should 
have been gained within the previous five (5) years." Sec https://www.esa.org/certification/guide-requirements/, copy 
incorporated into the record of proceedings. In addition, we note that ESOA's "Senior Ecologist" designation requires a 
higher level of education and professional accomplishment. 
3 For exam le the Petitioner resented an article in Frontiers in Marine Science entitled 
but this articl~e_i_s_n_o_t _a.,....b-ou_t_t..,..h_e_P_e-ti-ti-o-ne-1-· as ~------------------------~ required by the language of 8 C.F .R. · 204.5 h 3 iii . Rather on a e 11 the aforementioned article briefl references 
her scholarly work stating: 
~---------,-----~(Pauli, 2017)." This article similarly references the scholarly works of hundreds 
of other authors. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that the published material should be about the 
petitioner relating to her work in the field). 
3 
Matter of P-G-
work constituted original contributions of major significance in the field. For the reasons discussed 
below, we agree with that determination. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance in the 
field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she has presented her work at "invited symposia" and authored 
"invited articles."5 While the Petitioner contends that these invited symposia and invited articles show 
her expertise in the field, she does not identify which of her particular research articles or presentations 
offers findings that are of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance" in the field. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122. There is no presumption that publishing research (such as an invited review) or 
presenting work at an invited symposium represents a contribution of major significance in the field; 
rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of her article or presentation. Here, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently demonstrated that her published and presented work was majorly significant in the 
field. 
As one type of evidence of the impact of her work, the record includes information from Research 
Gate showing "12 citations" to her work and "Google Scholar citation metrics" reflecting 23 "citing 
articles" at the time of filing. Generally, citations can confirm that the field has taken interest in a 
researcher's work. While the Petitioner submitted various examples of articles that cited to her work, 
they do not reflect that her work was singled out as particularly important. Rather, the Petitioner's 
findings were utilized as background information to the authors' papers. In this case, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the number of citations to her work, considered both individually and 
collectively, are commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the field." 
The record also contains information about the journals that published the Petitioner's work, including 
their citation metrics and rankings. That a publication bears a high ranking is reflective of its overall 
citation rate. Ranking alone, however, does not demonstrate the influence of any particular author within 
the publication or show that an author's research has had an impact within the field. The appropriate 
analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown that her individual articles, factoring in 
citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered important at a level consistent with 
original contributions of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner has not presented 
sufficient documentation to demonstrate that any of her published findings rise to the level of a 
contribution of major significance in her field. 
Similarly, while the Petitioner's participation in symposia such as the International Congress on 
Entomology and International Organic Geochemistry Workshop demonstrates that her findings were 
5 For example. the Petitioner provided documentation indicating that she gave an oral presentation in the International 
Workshop on C1mpound Specific Isotope Analysis of Amino Acids in the Department oflnteractive Biology atl I I In addition, the record shows that she was invited to submit an article for a special issue of Food Webs. 
4 
Matter of P-G-
shared with others and may be acknowledged as original based on their selection for presentation, she 
has not established that the selection of her work for presentation at these conferences and the requests 
for her to speak, in-and-of-themselves, show the major significance of her contributions. 
As another form of evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner contends that she provided letters from 
experts in the field who have offered testimony regarding her contributions in microbial ecolo~ 
Several of these references discussed her work involving bee-microbe interactions. For example,LJ I I, professor in the Department of Entomology atl !University 7, stated that the 
Pet1t10ner "was the first to apply neutral lipids analyses, a specific class of fatty acids, to detail trophic 
preferences among bees" and that her work "has shown that bees obtain a sinnificant proportion of 
their fats from fungi and bacteria, and less from pollen." While I indicated that "[t]hese 
results are both unexpected and especially noteworthy," the record does not include sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that this work has affected the Petitioner's field in a substantial 
way or otherwise constitutes a contribution of major significance in the field. Likewise, I I 
professor of entomology at University of1 I asserted that the Petitioner's "findings provide 
compelling evidence that microbes not only serve as mutualists, but that they form an important part 
of bee diet." I I farther noted that these "highly novel results suggest that bee survivorship is 
inextricably related to their microbial symbionts," but the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated 
that the impact of these findings rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's graduate research relating to mercury accumulation in polular game 
fish, I I professor of geological sciences at the University of I , indicated 
that the Petitioner's work "reported on previously undocumented aspects of habitat-specific foraging 
among fish populations as an underlying mechanism for mercury poisoning." I I farther 
stated that the Petitioner's "findings have developed an integrated view of food webs that include the 
function of microbial communities in pollutant cycling" and that her "results represent a major 
frameshift in mercury toxicity analysis." We recognize that research must add information to the pool 
of knowledge in some way in order to be accepted for publication, presentation, fonding, or academic 
credit, but not every finding that broadens knowledge in a particular field is tantamount to a scientific 
contribution of major significance in that field. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that her findings 
have been widely implemented or otherwise represent a scientific contribution of major significance 
in her field. 
The record includes additional recommendation letters from the Petitioner's peers. Although these 
remaining letters praise her work, they do not demonstrate how her contributions are "of major 
significance in the field." As discussed above, the Petitioner has not shown through her citation history 
or other evidence that her work, once published or presented, has been of major significance in the 
field. While the selection of the Petitioner's articles in professional journals or at conference 
proceedings verifies the originality of her work, it does not necessarily reflect that her research is 
6 While we discuss a sampling of the recommendation letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 The record indicates thatl lis collaboratin on a multi-ear ro·ect with the Petitioner and her coworkers at I I and that they coauthored an article, entitled I 1, .__ _____________________ __, 
8 The record reflects that the Petitioner received her Ph.D. in Biological Sciences from the University of~I --~lin 2015 
and tha~ I served on her disse11ation committee. 
5 
Matter of P-G-
considered of major significance. Without sufficient evidence demonstrating that her work constitutes 
original scientific contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established 
that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she has performed in a leading or critical role for ESA as a member of its 
"position statement writing team." While the Petitioner has presented documentation indicating that 
ESA has a distinguished reputation, for the reasons discussed below, the evidence is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's role for that organization was leading or critical. 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 9 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 10 
The record includes a September 2018 letter from~---------------~ for 
ESA, stating that the Petitioner serves as an "ESA position statement writing team member." ~ I lforther indicated: "Writing Committees perform a central role in drafting the Society's 
Position Statements on issues of critical importance on which more scientific education is required. 
Position statements help define the advocacy goals and advocacy boundaries for the Society, which 
enables ESA to respond consistently and quickly to rapidly changing policy developments." 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted information from the ESA's website indicating that writing 
committees are overseen by the "ESA position statements" committee, a subcommittee to the ESA 
Science Policy Committee: 
The ESA Science Policy Committee ... is charged with leading the effort to establish 
a science policy agenda for ESA that will guide and focus the Society's outreach efforts 
with governments, NGOs, and other organizations. The committee's tasks included 
developing a framework for gathering input from throughout the Society, and 
determining how actions may benefit the Society and its members. The committee 
consists of a Chair (ESA Past-President), a representative from each Section and 
Branch, one student member, two Ad hoc members, one of whom is also the Society's 
EPA-OPP Liaison .... There are two subcommittees --one that supervises the Science 
Policy Fellows program and one that oversees the ESA position statements authoring 
and approval process (including working with the writing committees). 
The record contains farther information from ESA about its position statements, science policy writing 
committees, and the application process for volunteers seeking to serve on the position statement 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
io Id. 
6 
Matter of P-G-
wntmg committee. The Petitioner, however, has not shown that her role on the position statement 
writing team is leading or critical to ESA overall. Although the letter froml I confirms the 
Petitioner's service on the ESA position statement writing team, it does not indicate that the Petitioner 
ever held a leadership position within the ESA. Further, as it relates to a critical role, the evidence is 
not sufficient to show that the Petitioner has contributed to the success or standing of ESA. While D I I contends that Petitioner rendered a "critical contribution" to the society, he did not provide 
specific examples of how her service as a writer rose to a level consistent with a critical role. The 
Petitioner did not demonstrate, for example, that her specific work has significantly influenced ESA's 
science policy agenda. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she performed in a leading 
or critical role for ESA. Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of her work are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that she qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of P-G-, ID# 3752874 (AAO Aug. 7, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF V-M-G-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a healthcare provider, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a surgeon, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the field of •~------~surgery." See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification 
makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through 
sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their 
field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required, it did not show the Beneficiary's 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and a brief: arguing that it has demonstrated the 
Beneficiary's required acclaim and that he has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of V-M-G-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. United States Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS), 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This 
two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity 
of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence 
for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality 
of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The evidence, including the Beneficiary's resume, indicates that he received his medical physician 
and surgeon license from Pennsylvania in May 2013, and his certification from the American Board 
of Surgery in September 2017. According to a September 2018 letter from the Petitioner, since July 
2018, the Beneficiary has worked for the Petitioner as a '.__ ______ ____.Surgeon/Minimally 
Invasive! I Surgeon," receiving an "annual salary [ of] $261,000 with a potential quality bonus 
of $39,000." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the membership in associations criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) or the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). The record supports this conclusion. Specifically, while the Petitioner has submitted 
evidence of the Beneficiary's membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, 
it has not demonstrated that these associations "require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." Similarly, 
while the evidence -including reference letters as well as documentation on the Beneficiary's research 
and citation frequency -shows that he is a surgeon who might have the potential to impact the field, 
it does not confirm that he has already made original contributions of major significant in the field of 
".__ ______ __, surgery." 
2 
Matter of V-M-G-
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the above criteria, he did find that 
the Petitioner satisfied three other criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). While we agree 
that the record confirms that the Petitioner meets two criteria -as relating to the Beneficiary's 
participation as a judge, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and his authorship of scholarly articles, 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we disagree that it also satisfies the criterion relating to the Beneficiary's salary or 
remuneration under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has presented evidence from professional publications -including JSM Pediatric 
Surgery and Saudi Medical Journal -confirming that the Beneficiary has served as one of their 
manuscript reviewers. Additionally, the record demonstrates that he has authored scholarly articles 
that are published in professional ·oumals. For exam le the Journal of Case Re arts and Ima es in 
Sur er ublished his article 
and Cases Journal ublished his paper 
While the record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfies two criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), it does not establish that it also meets the third criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires "[e]vidence that the [Beneficiary] has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 
According to a June 2018 letter from the Petitioner, it has employed the Beneficiary as a "physician 
specializing in..,,._ ______ __,surgery," compensating him with an annual salary of $261,000 as 
well as "a potential quality bonus of $39,000." A 2018 employment agreement references the potential 
bonus as "deferred compensation" or "compensation at risk." The Beneficiary's 2018 pay stubs 
confirm his hourly rate of $125.48 and an annual salary of $261,000. 
In addition, the Petitioner has presented the following documentation in support of its claim that the 
Beneficiary has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration: (1) a printout from 
O*NET OnLine, providing wage data on "Physicians and Surgeons, All Other" in I INew 
Jersey, the Petitioner's office location; (2) a United States Bureau of Labor Statistics printout, listing 
the hourly mean wage and annual mean wage for surgeons in "General Medical and Surgical 
Hospitals"; (3) a printout from Foreign Labor Certification Data Center, stating that due to "limitations 
in the OES [Occupational Employment Statistics] data," the website cannot provide "[l]eveled wages" 
for surgeons in thel INew Jersey, area; and (4) a printout from indeed.com, indicating an 
average salary range for "physician bariatric surgeon[ s ]" in the United States who have reported their 
salaries to the website. 
Most of these documents relate to salaries of physicians and surgeons, but do not parse out specific 
information on the salaries of surgeons inl medicine. 1 According to the Petitioner's September 
2018 letter.I I medicine is the Beneficiary's primary, if not entire, practice. The letter states 
that he has worked as a surgeon providing "minimall -invasive surgical procedures" in I I 
medicine" and that he "fill[s] the need for farther care in the.__ ______ ___,] region." 
Salary evidence on surgeons who are not in .__ _ ____.medicine is therefore insufficient to demonstrate 
~1....:A..:.:c:..::c.::.;or:..::d:::.:in::.:.gc..:to::....:.:cth::.::.e..:..P-=.;et:::.:i t:;;.:;io:.:c:n.::.;erc.:..!,.l===I m:;;::e:..::d:;;.:;ic:.:c:in::.::e....:i::....s '....:'t;:;::he::....s::.i;p::.::.ec::.;:,;-ialty field of treating patients suffering from I 
.__I --------~I ~-----' 
3 
Matter of V-M-G-
that the Beneficiary "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix); Matter of Price, 20 l&N 
Dec. 953, 955 {Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (comparing a professional golfer's earnings with those of other 
Professional Golfers' Association (PGA) Tour golfers); Skokos v. United States Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser 
duties does not establish a proper basis of comparison); Crimson v. Immigration and Naturalization 
Service (INS), 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (comparing National Hockey League (NHL) 
enforcer's salary with salaries of other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. 
Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salaries of other NHL defensemen). 
The remaining relevant documentation, which is from indeed.com, provides avera~e salary 
information on bariatric surgeons, indicating that "[t]he average salary for 'physician I 
surgeon[s]' ranges from approximately $175,930 per year for Surgeon[s] to $227,401 per year for 
Hospitalist[s]." This evidence also does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies the criterion. First, 
the regulation requires the Petitioner to offer evidence showing that the Beneficiary has commanded 
a high salary or significantly high remuneration relative to others in the field, rather than a salary that 
is above average in his field. Second, the salary information from indeed.com is limited to those who 
reported their salaries to the website, and the Petitioner cannot confirm the accuracy of the self­
reported information. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the wage information it has presented 
constitutes an appropriate basis for comparison. As such, it has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
annual salary and potential bonus constitute "al high salry" or "other significantly high remuneration 
for services" as compared to other surgeons in medicine. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of the Beneficiary's receipt of a one­
time achievement or his satisfaction of at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). It has also not established the acclaim and recognition required to classify him 
as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of "general and I lsurgery." Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has 
long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of the Beneficiary's academic, scholarly, research, and professional accomplishments 
is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b){l){A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the smal I percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 2 See section 
203(b){l){A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
2 While the Petitioner has cited to our non-precedent decisions discussing foreign nationals' qualifications as individuals 
of extraordinary ability, these decisions were not published as a precedent and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in 
4 
Matter of V-M-G-
III. CONCLUSION 
The record does not establish that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will therefore be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is 
the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 2012). Here, that 
burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofV-M-G-, ID# 3751527 (AAO Aug. 7, 2019) 
future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. ~ 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts 
of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, 
and applicable law and policy. Specifically, the foreign nationals discussed in the non-precedent decisions were not in the 
same field as that of the Beneficiary, and had submitted documents that were qualitatively different than those in this case. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF G-T-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a strategic port planner, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not established that he is coming to the United States 
to continue work in the area of expertise and had not shown that he met any of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The Petitioner then filed a motion to reopen and 
reconsider which the Acting Director denied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that the record shows his 
continuing intent to work in the area of expertise and establishes that he qualifies as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 1 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 We decline the Petitioner's request for oral argument. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b). 
Matter of G-T-C-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a strategic port planner with more than 25 years of experience 
in maritime and civil infrastructure development. The Acting Director concluded that the Petitioner 
had not shown clear evidence that he is coming to the U.S. to continue working in the area of expertise. 
Next, she held that the Petitioner had not satisfied at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to warrant a final merits determination. 
After reviewing the record in its entirety, we find that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated his 
intent to continue his work in the area of expertise, but he has not established that he meets at least 
three of the regulatory criteria, as required. 
A. Continuous Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Acting Director held in the initial decision and on motion that the Petitioner had not submitted 
clear evidence that he is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise. Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act states that the petitioner must show that he seeks to enter the United States "to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability." The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) states 
that such evidence may include a statement "detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his 
or her work in the United States." 
2 
Matter of G-T-C-
In response to the Acting Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted a statement 
regarding the need the United States has for specialist port planners. He states that his services have 
been in high demand in the country, and in his second statement submitted on appeal, he provides 
additional background information regarding the growth of his company, noting that over the last five 
years, he has "built a company that ... has managed to position itself as a leading provider of highly 
specialized consulting services to the ports, maritime and shipping industries around the world." He 
adds that his goal "has been to take [his company's] success, built initially in Australia before 
spreading out into Europe, to the United States and to assist the country and its industry to achieve its 
requirements in an ever-changing world." He notes that he "spent a great of time planning this," seeing 
"a clear and present market capacity gap in the U.S." The Petitioner indicates that his first major U.S. 
based project "was one of the largest port planning exercises to be undertaken in the U.S., the long­
term planning of the Ports of New York and New Jersey," noting that his accomplishments there led 
him to secure three other projects which are "three of the largest private investment transactions in 
U.S. ports and related infrastructure." We find that this evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the 
Petitioner intends to continue his work in the area of expertise to meet the requirements of section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Acting Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of these criteria. Here, we find that the 
Petitioner has established that he meets the criteria for leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). However, the evidence in the record 
does not demonstrate that he meets the criteria for membership, published material, or contributions 
of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (v), respectively.2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of this criterion through his membership in the 
World Association for Waterborne Transport Infrastructure (PIANC)3 and his position on the board 
of the .__ ___________ ___.· In the initial decision, the Acting Director held that while 
the Petitioner had established evidence of his membership in the PIANC, he had not shown that 
PIANC requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. Then, on motion, she held that the email chain 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in conducting the two-part review set out in Kazarian. He 
states that under the approach in Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1234 (E.D. Mich. 1994), once three of the regulatory 
requirements are met, he has met prima facie eligibility and the burden of proof shifts to USCTS to demonstrate by "specific 
and substantiated evidence" why the petitioner is not qualified. Here, we need not address this claim because the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
3 The PIANC was originally known as the Permanent International Association of Navigation Congresses. 
3 
Matter of G-T-C-
showing his acceptance of the board position for the~ did not equate to primary evidence of his 
membership. She also held that he had not otherwise shown that board membership required 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meet~J:his_qiterion through the documentation in the record 
regarding the distinguished background of the l__Jboard members and the secondary evidence he 
submitted regarding his~ membership, including his explanation for not being able to obtain 
primyv evi1ence. The Petitioner states that because the Acting Director did not discuss membership 
in th in the initial decision and only focused on the PIANC, he understood that it had been 
established that he met this requirement pertaining to the D On motion, however, the Acting 
Director held that the Petitioner had not met this criterion through his membership in the D The 
Petitioner has not submitted any new evidence related to his memberships, asserting that the 
documentation demonstrates that board membership on thec=J required outstanding achievements 
of its members as judged by national or international experts. 
We find that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof in establishing that he meets this criterion. 
The record contains an email chain between the Petitioner and I I regarding the 
Petitioner's acceptance of a position on theDboard, but the record does not demonstrate what 
criteria was used in extending the invitation to the Petitioner. The record contains an I I 
report from October 2016 stating that "c=J represents the major Australian logistics supply chain 
customers, providers, infrastructure owners and suppliers," adding that its members "span the entire 
supply chain, incorporating road, rail, sea, air, maritime and intermodal ports." However, the 
Petitioner has not provided evidence demonstrating that membership on the board for the ~ 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as determined by national or international experts 
in the field. 
We note that in the RFE response the Petitioner identified certain individuals on the board for theD 
along with their titles, contending that "only someone on par with the level of expertise and significant 
achievements as other board members would be asked to join the board." The Petitioner states that he 
met these "high qualifications of the board membership," noting that this is the reason he was invited 
to join the board. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence corroborating his claims regarding the 
qualifications of the other members of the board at Dor their outstanding achievements, and his 
unsupported statements are insufficient to establish eligibility. Here, we note that even though the 
Petitioner has identified members of the board and their job titles, a comparison alone to the other 
members of the board is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual members of the board 
may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate thatOrequires outstanding achievements, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts, to be appointed to its board. For example, 
the Petitioner did not submit evidence of the organization's criteria for board membership or its 
selection process, or documentation establishing the expertise and recognition of those individuals 
judging him for admission. 
Similarly, the Petitioner has also not established that his membership in PIANC meets the 
requirements of this criterion. The PIANC website states that it is "the global non-political and non­
profit organisation providing guidance for sustainable waterborne transport infrastructure for ports and 
waterways," noting that "[ m ]embers include governments and public authorities, corporations and 
4 
Matter of G-T-C-
interested individuals." This webpage farther states, "PIANC Australia is one of the larger of the 25 
recognised national sections within PIANC internationally" with a "growing membership which 
currently comprises about 41 corporate members and 84 individual members." While the record 
contains an invoice submitted to the Petitioner from PIANC Australia, Inc., for the 2016 membership 
fees to establish his membership in this organization, the Petitioner has not provided additional 
documentation showing that this organization requires outstanding achievements of its members as 
judged by national or international experts for membership. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Acting Director held that the publications in the record only quoted the Petitioner and do not 
constitute published material about him to meet the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the 
Petitioner references articles published in the World Maritime News, Port Finance International, the 
Ports Australia Newsletter, and on voakl.net. Three of the four articles do not satisfy the requirements 
of the criterion as they do not identify the author. The article appearing on voakl.net, a blog dedicated 
to issues related to southern Auckland, does identify its author, but the record does not establish that 
the blog constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Furthermore, we 
note that none of the articles are about the Petitioner; one only briefly mentions his consultancy, while 
the others focus on projects and contain only a brief quote from him. Articles that are not about the 
Petitioner do not establish eligibility for this criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Pl umpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not 
about the actor). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the Petitioner must satisfy. He 
must demonstrate that his contributions are original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related in nature. The contributions must have already been realized, rather than being 
prospective possibilities. He must also establish that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and thus has meaning. See Matter of Masri, 22 I&N Dec. 1145, 1148 
(BIA 1999). "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. The Acting Director found that 
the evidence in the record did not support this criterion because the letters in the record from a former 
colleague and employers demonstrated that his work was highly regarded, but this evidence did not 
establish how it had significantly contributed to the greater field, beyond them and their customers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner has not submitted any new evidence, contending that the previously 
submitted documentation establishes his eligibility. He relies on seven letters from individuals in the 
same field, asserting that they are experts in the field and that the Acting Director erred in not 
5 
Matter of G-T-C-
considering all of them. While these letters attest to his expertise as a port planner, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate how his original contributions have impacted the field 
at large. Several of the letters focus on the Petitioner's consulting work related to the I I I I deputy director ofl l states in his letter, 
"the Long range Masterplan is one of the most important port planning exercises undertaken by I I which "will effectively guide the development in our port and terminal planning to ~ 
the future maritime trade needs of New York and New Jersey region over the next 30+ years." L_J 
~ identifies the Petitioner's contributions as a sub-consultant to I I the engineering consulting 
firm awarded the project, stating that "[ the Petitioner] was instrumental in the delivery of future fleet 
forecasting, future-state thinking, multi-terminal capacity analysis and the development of the various 
port plan options." He does not, however, describe how the Petitioner's individual contributions to 
thel project bid were of major significance to the field. 4 
,.......... ................................... i ..... n........,..a_l..,,e=tt..,.e.._r~from '--------~ the chief operating officer of the .... I _____ ___, 
.____..--______ ....,in Australia, he states that he directed the Petitioner to provide consulting to 
the Port of noting that this is "one of the largest import focused )i20rts in the southern 
hemisphere." .___ ___ _.indicates that the Petitioner "has been delivering all otf I jajorpT 
planning which includes commissioning him on several large transformational projects for " 
He then adds, "[t]here is no question that [the Petitioner's] ability and expertise is incredibly rare, not 
just in the maritime industry, but also in the wider engineering industry." The letter does not identify 
what specific ori&inal contributions the Petitioner made in providing consulting work for the Port of I ~ or for l I or how it impacted the field. 
I I principal consultant and senior I I project representative at I I an 
engineering consulting firm states that the I plan is a "high profile project" that is "one of the 
largest planning projects to ever be undertaken byl I' She states that although! ~s "one of 
the world's leading engineering consultancies, including significant market share of maritime and port 
engineering," she notes that "the company does not maintain senior port planning skills," relying 
instead on "specialist sub-consultants to deliver projects like these." I !indicates, "[the 
Petitioner] was very impressive to the I I when we bid for 
the project, due to his clear understanding of the global port planning industry and his track record in 
delivering strategic port plans around the world." She then asserts that "[t]he reality is that we would 
not have won the project without his primary involvement." While the letter describes the effect the 
Petitioner's work had onl lit does not establish how his work on the I I project bid 
represents an original contribution of major significance. 
'------_,~__.I farther expands upon the Petitioner's role by stating, "[h]aving then won the project 
alongside [the Petitioner's] company, he has been instrumental in enabling us to deliver a plan to I I that is both innovative and defendable." She notes that the Petitioner "delivered all [the 
company's] highly specialist port planning work including advanced maritime shipping fleet 
forecasting, trade analysis, terminal capacity modelling and analysis, development option planning 
and future state analysis." She indicates, "[t]his sort of service is well beyond typical engineering 
consultancy services and is pure specialist work." The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
4 We note thatl lalso indicates that the development of the master plan is ongoing and not expected to conclude 
until May or June of 2018. 
6 
Matter of G-T-C-
demonstrating how his work as a consultant to I I for the I I project has amounted to a 
contribution of major significance, apart from the benefit this provided to I I in its role on the 
project. "Contributions of major significance" means that the petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. 
Similarly, in a letter from I I senior partner and leader of the transaction advisory services 
at I lin New Zealand, he states that the company has "again teamed with [the 
Petitioner as art of a multidisci linar team to develop a long range port planning study for thee=] 
the largest port on the east coast of the U.S." He 
~a-ls_o_1 __ n-d-ic_a_t-es_t_h_a_t-th_e_P-et-it-i-on_e_r_'_'l-ed~--s-d_e_h __ v-e-ry~of the I I Study, which is one 
of the highest profile infrastructure planning assessments being undertaken in New Zealand." This 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has led high profile infrastructure planning, but the record does not 
contain evidence demonstrating specifically what his original contributions are and how they amount 
to contributions of major significance. 
The record contains two letters froml I the director of~-------~- He 
states in his first letter that the Petitioner has been described by clients and colleagues as a "brilliant 
engineer," and that he " lanned, designed, and managed the deli r f m · r i il n in rin 
projects fo like the conceptual ground works for th;;:.e;;;..i... ___________ _____. 
~-----~ and the civil works for thel I hotel in.___ _ _. Georgia." He adds that the 
Petitioner has delivered maritime projects "including the planning and design of [the] I I 
marina," which he states, "when complete, will be one of the largest marinas in Europe." While these 
are again indicative of high profile projects, the record does not contain supporting documentation to 
establish specifically what the Petitioner's contributions ~ere and how they represent contributions of 
major significance in the field. While thel Jmarina and thel I projects appear to 
still be in progress, it has not been shown how his contributions have already amounted to 
contributions of major significance in the field. For the projects that have been completed, the record 
does not contain sufficient evidence demonstrating what his original contributions were and how they 
have constituted contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. 5 If a critical role, 
the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance 
to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may be considered 
"critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It is not the title 
of the petitioner's role, but rather his performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 6 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
6 Id. 
7 
Matter of G-T-C-
The Acting Director held that the letters discussing the Petitioner's role in the I I project did 
not establish how his role was leading or critical forD On appeal, the Petitioner highlights his 
role withl I and asserts that this establishes his leading role. I J the practice 
leader-maritime atl I states in his letter that he followed the Petitioner to the compry,I 
~that the Petitioner received the "prestigious~- lobal Practice Leader for Maritime." 
L__Jstates that while "[the Petitioner's] role in was a highly prestigious position in the 
maritime industry," his role as global director for "is one of the pinnacle positions in the global 
maritime practice." He states that in this role, the Petitioner "was tasked with building a new maritime 
practice in Australia and South Asia as well as developingLJs global maritime practice." The 
record contains articles about the firm establishing it has a distinguished reputation. This evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner satisfies the regulatory criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Acting Director held that the evidence in the record did not show that the Petitioner has 
commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional 
documentation showing an offer of employment withl lin 2013, stating a salary of 
$252,000 and a $48,000 bonus. The record also contains a monthly base income pay statement from 
.__ _____ ____.~tating year-to-date income of$146,584, which the record reflects represents income 
for approximately half of the fiscal year. Documentation from the bis.gov website indicates that the 
top ten percent of wages for civil engineers in the United States was $132,880 as of May 2016. The 
record also contains documentation from the Professional Engineers Employment and Remuneration 
Report for 201 7 regarding salaries for engineers in Australia, demonstrating that the Petitioner's 
income is much higher than the upper quartile of the highest wage levels listed. The record contains 
an offer of employment wit~ I stating his salary as $249,840 (from July 1, 2013 to 
March 31, 2014 ), invoices from consultancy work that the Petitioner performed, and documentation 
from his personal bank account. This evidence sufficiently establishes that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise, but he has 
not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) to meet the initial evidentiary requirements as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofG-T-C-, ID# 1883233 (AAO Aug. 7, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20486742 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 08, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur and financier, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in 
the field of business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203 (b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
showed that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification, it 
did not establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage of those at the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaiav.Beers,4F. Supp.3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner served as from May 2012 until December 2014, and is a co-
founder and chairman of a telecommunications company operating 
mainly in Africa. More recently, he founded a venture capital firm, and he states that he 
intends to promote "smart tax" technology to provide a source of funding for various social programs. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his receipt of lesser nationally recognized awards, 
leading role for organizations having a distinguished reputation, and material about him in major 
media. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his achievements show sustained national or international 
acclaim, and refers to a nonprecedential decision by the AAO in another matter for comparison. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we disagree with the Director's decision concerning the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We also conclude that even ifhe had met the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification, the Petitioner has not shown that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of entrepreneurs and financiers at the top of 
his field. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards.for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this evidentiary criterion, a petitioner must show that he is the recipient of an award, 
that that award was granted for excellence in his field of endeavor, and that it is nationally or 
internationally recognized within that field. The Petitioner submitted evidence regarding his receipt 
of these five awards: • □ university Distinguished Alumni Award, 2012 
2 
• Technology Innovation Award in Regulatory Sector 
2013 
• Innovative Leader of the Y ear, _____ Business Award, I 2014 
• Chambers of Commerce I I Award for Leadership in 
2016 
• ___ Hall of Fame,I 2019 
We first note that the Petitioner was not named as a recipient of the I I award, so it does 
not satisfy the first element of this criterion and therefore does not qualify. Moving on to the second 
element of this criterion, which requires that an award be for excellence in a petitioner's field of 
endeavor, the record includes only a single article regarding the alumni award from I University. 
This article was posted on the institution's website and indicates that the award is given to recognize 
graduates for "professional achievements, contributions to society and support of the university." As 
there is no mention of the award being given for excellence in business, it also does not qualify under 
this criterion. 
As for the other three awards, the Director initially indicated that these were not in the field of finance, 
and thus were not evidence ofrecognition for the Petitioner for excellence in his field. However, 
because the evidence indicates that all of them recognize achievements in the field of business, we 
disagree. The Director ultimately 
1concluded that because the I I award had received "some 
degree of media coverage i this award was sufficient to meet this criterion. But the evidence 
of that media coverage consists of a single article posted on the I I website which announced 
the Petitioner's upcoming receipt of the award. The record does not include further information about 
I lor the award, or aboutviewership of the I I website, or other evidence to show that 
the award is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of business. 
The same is true about the evidence relating to the I I Business A ward and the I Hall 
of Fame. Regarding the latter award, the evidence consists only of material from the sponsoring 
organization, and therefore doesn't demonstrate that others in the field of business consider it to be 
prestigious or a recognition of excellence. Similarly, the evidence regarding the I I Business 
Award includes a press release froml _ and a short article on the website of the Miami 
Herald which reports on the sale of the business responsible for producing the award. While the 
materials regarding both awards describe them as attracting and recognizing business leaders from 
across the I region, this material is not supported by documentary evidence of, for 
example, business media coverage of the awards themselves, or other evidence that they are 
recognized in the field beyond the awarding entities. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion, and therefore withdraw that portion of the Director's decision. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. While we have concluded that the Petitioner has not met 
3 
the initial evidentiary requirement for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability, and thus need 
not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, we 
will nonetheless consider the issue of the Petitioner's qualification under that standard, as it is the 
focus of both the Director's decision and the appeal. 
Because extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails 
a judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria 
alone. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394-395 (2022). The final merits determination is the 
ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has extraordinary ability as demonstrated by 
sustained national or international acclaim. Id. In this case, even if the Petitioner had met at least three 
of the evidentiary criteria, he has not offered sufficient evidence that he meets that standard. 
The Petitioner asse1is on appeal that his case is indistinguishable from that of another petitioner whose 
appeal we sustained.1 This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Further, without a review of the complete record in that case, we are unable to make a direct 
comparison with the evidence submitted by the Petitioner. However, we note that in that case, the 
decision indicates that the petitioner was the CEO of two companies, one of which had received a 
widely-known recognition by a major business publication, and another which had garnered media 
coverage. Here, there is little evidence concerning specifics of the Petitioner's role as a founder and 
chairman ofl land as noted by the Director, the recognition the company received appears to be 
in the form of a vanity award. And while the Petitioner mentions other companies which he has started 
and/or led, the record includes scant documentary evidence about these companies, their reputation in 
the field, or the Petitioner's role and accomplishments. We further note that much of the evidence that 
is in the record concerning his companies is in the form of biographies from his own website or those 
posted in relation to awards or speaking events. 
In addition, that non-precedent decision noted that the petitioner in that case had patents which had 
been shown to have made contributions of major significance in his field. Here, the Petitioner claimed 
that the previously-discussed awards were evidence of his contributions to the field of business, as 
were his speaking engagements at international economic forums. But as noted by the Director, 
neither of these types of evidence are direct evidence of contributions to his field, since neither were 
shown to be contributions in themselves. While the evidence of the Petitioner's speaking engagement 
at the ________ in I Switzerland and other economic conferences implies a certain 
level of recognition, it is unclear from the record whether he gained that recognition through his 
political activities as as opposed to his activities in the field of business. 
Notably, the Forbes article which briefly discusses his comments at the 20181 I 
do not mention any of his businesses but identify him only as _________ 
Also, the non-precedent decision pointed to several reference letters as corroborating the impact of 
that petitioner's original contributions to his field. In this matter, the Petitioner submitted a single 
letter from a professor at I University who worked with him as a foreign consultant 
1 2012 WL9160624 
4 
following the 201 0 ______ The writer briefly mentions! I but mainly focuses on the 
Petitioner's goals in leading the country's reconstruction efforts, concluding that "he was unable to 
complete his efforts in This letter fails to corroborate the Petitioner's claims of contributions 
in the field of business, and unlike the non-precedent decision, the record lacks testimony from other 
experts in his field. 
As to other evidence of his contributions to the field of business, we acknowled e the evidence of the 
Petitioner's role as co-chair of ________________________ 
in 2013. We note that the accompanying annual report names a different 
individual as co-chair, while also including photographs with captions noting the Petitioner's work 
with the council. In any event, the record shows that he played a leading role in the economic 
redevelopment efforts in through I and gained some level ofrecognition for those effmts. 
However, the record also includes derogatory evidence relating to this role, as noted by the Director 
in his decision, which the Petitioner does not address on appeal. The credible accusations ofcorruption 
cited in an update to another Forbes article datedl I 2019, and the Petitioner's resignation 
from his post _____ detract from any acclaim he achieved in that role. 
As stated above, section 203(b)(l) of the Act requires that a petitioner's acclaim and recognition in 
their field be demonstrated through extensive documentation. Here, the record falls short of providing 
the level of detail and supporting documentation needed to establish the Petitioner's eligibility as an 
alien of extraordinary ability in the field of business. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 8, 2024 In Re: 32630858 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a martial artist who seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , in November 2018 concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three ofthe ten regulatory 
criteria. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and eight subsequent motions. The matter is again 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. The Petitioner bears the burden 
of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for 
the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new 
evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . On the other hand, a motion to reconsider must 
establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Stated differently , the issues here are whether the Petitioner: (1) has submitted 
new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to warrant reopening , and (2) has established that we 
incorrectly applied the law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy in dismissing 
his fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
And the matters the Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues 
discussed within our most recent decision; the decision on his eighth motion. General support that a 
motion must first overcome the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one 
has to file a motion after the most recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity 
who made the latest decision. This demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the 
most recent adverse decision before the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose 
in a previous petition, appeal, or motion filing. 
Therefore, we will only consider new facts supported by evidence (for the motion to reopen) to the extent 
that it pertains to our latest decision dismissing the motion to reopen dated February 5, 2024. Likewise, 
we will only address the Petitioner's arguments that we erred in some manner (for the motion to 
reconsider) in that same decision. We will not entertain any discussion for any decision that occurred 
throughout these proceedings unless the Petitioner first shows "proper cause" to reopen or reconsider our 
February 5, 2024 decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Multiple motion filings serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, 
particularly in immigration proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who 
wishes to remain in the United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th 
Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 
(1988)). USCIS has the latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them 
too freely can create endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government 
resources attending to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing 
party may encounter procedural hurdles when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally 
increases with each subsequent motion filing. Id. 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter, but it is enough 
to say that this is the tenth filing the Petitioner has executed with our office after the Director denied 
the petition in 2018. For the same reason we dismissed motions two through eight, we reach the same 
decision here. 
In this motion, the Petitioner submits a statement and evidence relating to the merits of his eligibility 
for the visa classification he asserted before the Director. While the Petitioner's statement 
accompanying this motion is not a carbon copy of the material he submitted in the previous motion, it 
is more like two pages from the same book, differing slightly but telling the same story. What's 
important is no portion of this new statement addresses our most recent decision dismissing motion 
number eight. Instead, the Petitioner generally asserts his eligibility for the visa classification, but he 
does not explain or point to any factual, legal, or policy error in our February 5, 2024 decision. The 
Petitioner's repetitive motions that do not address our previous decision, and instead continue to argue 
the merits ofthe visa classification, but doing the same thing over and over will not yield a different result. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to situations 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. So, to warrant a reopening or 
reconsideration, he must not only meet the formal filing requirements-submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee-but he must also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We must dismiss a motion that does not meet all applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Therefore, we will dismiss his motion to reopen because he does not provide new facts supported by 
documentary evidence related to our February 5, 2024 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
2 
Also, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider since he does not establish that we were 
incorrect in our ultimate determination in that same decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 8, 2024 In Re: 32453875 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a speculative designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not establish 
he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, but the Director determined 
the Petitioner fulfilled only the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets four additional categories of evidence. 1 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors.2 
The Petitioner initially presented a certificate stating that he "received a Student Runner Up honor in 
the Speculative Design category in the 20201 IAwards program for the project I I 
_________ He also provided information from the _________ website 
indicating that he joined the as a "Desi n Researcher in Residence" in 2019. 3 In addition, the 
Petitioner submitted a' Researcher's Award" certificate stating that 
he "made an excellent presentation at the Symposium 2008."4 The Director's 
1 In his appeal brief, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings that he did not meet the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and the original contributions ofmajor significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and 
therefore he has not overcome the Director's determination on these issues. We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility 
claims not raised or contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of0-
R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy ManualF.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 The information from the states: "The Designer in Residence is a competitive program in which an emerging 
international talent in design is invited to spend a period of time at the There they work jointly with I ______ students and staff to develop new signature pieces in response to the context of and to the 
research expertise of the The resulting work is then exhibited at I. ..." 
4 The record indicates that the Petitioner was one ofthree recipients ofthis award in 2009 and that other categories included 
"Best Paper Award," "Research Society Award," and "Special Award." Regarding the "Young Researcher's Award," 
information from thel Istates that it is "presented to persons who have shown excellent content at 
2 
decision explained that the Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that "these awards are 
recognized nationally or internationally" in his field. The Petitioner does not contest Director's 
conclusion relating to these awards on appeal and therefore he has not overcome the determination 
that they do not meet requirements of this criterion. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, 
e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that he is the recipient of a 2008 which 
he maintains meets the requirements of this criterion. 5 He presented information from the 
website indicating that he and two others received a in the "Innovation" category for their 
According to the "Results of the I I 
,..._ 2008," 1,067 items of 3,023 total screened items received I I in 2008, including 
"39 items" in the Innovation category. 6 The I Iwebsite also discussed "special" awards with a 
higher level of distinction than the Petitioner's honor. 7 For example, this information states: 
The special awards awarded include thel I Award Best 15, which include the 
candidates for the I I Grand Award, together with the I I 
Sustainable Design Award andl !Life-Scape Design Award .... 
Thel IAward Best 15 refers to the IGrand Award candidates and 
Gold Award winners. When the I Grand Award recipient is 
decided on November 6, the remaining 14 nominees of the Best 15 will be designated 
I IGold A ward winners. 
The Petitioner also submitted articles discussing others' receipt of al lor thel Iprogram at 
large in online publications such as ZME Science, Design Boom, and Dezeen, but this documentation 
does not demonstrate the significance of his specific Innovation inin the field of endeavor or 
indicate that his 2008 award has received media coverage or attention that rises to the level of national 
or international recognition. Without further evidence regarding its national or international 
significance in his field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his Innovation is ais a nationally 
or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
the Symposium sponsored by the Society. Winners must be under the age of 35 ... and have not 
previously received this award in the past. The presentations subject to the award are made at thel I 
Symposium held in the previous year." 
5 The record indicates that the IAward is operated by the 
6 Other 2008 winners included 357 recipients in the "Human body and life" category, 273 recipients in the "Industry 
and society" category, 386 recipients in the "Mobility and networks" categ01y, and 12 recipients in the "collaboration with 
Design Excellence Award" category. The program typically bestows more than one thousand awards each year. For 
example, the Petitioner presented an article, entitled I I which states that "[a]pproximately 
37,000I IAwards have been given" over the past several decades. 
7 The record does not indicate that the Petitioner was honored among the "Best 15" and that he received either a 
"Grand Award" or "Gold Award." 
3 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
USCIS first determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. 8 The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just about the person's employer and the 
employer's work or another organization and that organization's work. 9 USCIS then determines 
whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major 
media publication. 10 
Here, the Petitioner provided a 2019 article about him in Works hip, a job and project search platform 
specializing in freelance and side jobs. He contends on appeal that "Workship, which attracts 480.4K 
monthly website visitors, is a major media outlet that has published an exclusive feature on [the 
Petitioner]." As evidence that Workship is a form ofmajor media, the Petitioner submitted information 
from Sirnilarweb.corn indicating that the magazine's website (Goworkship.corn) had 480.4K "Total 
Visits Last 3 Months" with a "Global Rank" of 157,659, a "Country Rank" of 10,101, and a "Category 
Rank" of 40. The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that the total trimonthly visits to 
Goworkship.corn and the rankings from Sirnilarweb.corn render Works hip a form of major media. 
The Petitioner also presented a 2020 article, entitled 
posted on Note.corn, a social publishing platform. He argues on appeal that this article and 
Sirnilarweb.corn data relating to Note.corn were "not reviewed properly" and that the platform "is a 
major media outlet." While the article briefly references the Petitioner's work, it is not about him. 
Instead, the article summarizes the author's observations relating to See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In addition, the Petitioner 
submitted information from Sirnilarweb.corn indicating that Note.corn had 130.2M "Total Visits Last 
3 Months" with a "Global Rank" of 389, a "Country Rank" of 33, and a "Category Rank" of 2. While 
the Petitioner has offered website traffic data for Note.corn, the record does not indicate the number 
ofvisitors who specifically viewed ________________ or the significance 
of the article's placement on the platform. Without further information and evidence, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the article was in major media. 
The Petitioner also submitted material from D-labkit.ac.jp, Export FM, Engadget, tweets, and a blog, 
but his appeal brief does not contest Director's conclusions relating to this other material. Therefore, 
he has not overcome the determination that it does not meet requirements of this criterion. Again, an 
issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of0-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
8 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
9 Id. 
10Id. 
4 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he has authored scholarly articles in professional 
publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Petitioner that he meets the requirements of this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, users looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. 11 A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading.12 For a critical role, 
users looks at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 13 A petitioner must also demonstrate that 
the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which they hold or held a leading 
or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 14 Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or "befitting an eminent 
person." 15 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a leading or critical role fo _______________ 16 The Director determined that has a 
distinguished reputation, but concluded that the Petitioner's evidence relating to ___ 
________ ..... was insufficient to show these companies have a distinguished reputation. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of information about these three companies 
"from their own respective websites and articles which mention them," but noted that the record lacked 
evidence demonstrating they "have distinguished reputations as compared with other related entities." 
The Director further explained that some media attention does not necessarily demonstrate a 
company's eminence, distinction, or excellence. 
Regarding the reputation of Ithe Petitioner contends on appeal that "major media outlets" 
such as ZDNet Japan and erunchbase "have featured I I thereby confirming its 
distinguished reputation ." The 2021 article in ZDNet Japan (at Japan.zdnet.com/release) is a "press 
release provided by PR Times," a Japanese public relations company. 17 The conclusion of the article 
states: "This press release contains information posted by the company that made the announcement." 
The record also includes a summary of I I company information from erunchbase, a 
11 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
15 Id. 
16 The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his role for these organizations rather than a division or 
department within these organizations . 
17 This press release discusses a collaboration between to "launch the 
Another article, entitled Iappears on 
and promotes their online training program. This information , however, does not demonstrate that __ 
distinguished reputation. 
5 
company that provides information about businesses. The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated 
that the self-promotional material in ZDNet Japan and the I Icompany profile available 
through Crunchbase's business search engine are sufficient to show I I has earned a 
distinguished reputation. 
With respect to the reputation ofI I the Petitioner asserts on appeal that "major media outlets" 
such as ASCII and Nikkan "have featured I I thereby confirming this organization's 
distinguished reputation." The 2019 article in ASCII, entitled 
1 Iis an interview of __CEO discussing her company's novel 
I Irecruiting support tool. Likewise, the 2019 article in Nikkan discusses I Ilaunch of 
its "first product, I I and expectations relating to its popularity such as the company president's 
goal of having "1,000people registered by the end of March." While the articles in ASCII and Nikkan 
describe and its features, they do not indicate the level of commercial success of the product 
or otherwise show thatl Ihas achieved a distinguished reputation. 
Regarding the reputation I the Petitioner submitted articles from websites such as 
Allaboutcircuits.com, Technical.ly, Medium.com, and Technicianonline.com. 18 For example, the 
articles in Allaboutcircuits.com and Technical.ly, entit led 
and 
discuss accelerator projects in New York involving CEO. These articles discuss 
I products, but they do not indicate the economic scale ofthe company's customer base or that 
the company has otherwise garnered a distinguished reputation in the industry. 
Because the documentation in the record does not establish the distinguished reputation ofl____ 
the Petitioner has not demonstrated that they meet the requirements of this 
criterion. Since this issue is dispositive, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the appellate 
arguments regarding whether the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for each of these 
three companies. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
The Petitioner contends that he "has played a critical role for the highly distinguished ____ 
by leading its most important projects and thereby impacting the overall organization in major 
ways." 19 As it relates to the Petitioner's leading or critical role for I 20the record 
includes an October 2023 letter from T-K-, "Managing Designer , Design Innovation Group Leader" 
atl I stating: 
Since 2019, I have been ... leading the Design Innovation Group within the I 
I IDesign Center. ... Additionally, I lead the "envisioning studio," a respected 
18 The Petitioner's appeal brief does not provide arguments or point to evidence relating to !reputation. An issue 
not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. 
19 We agree with the Director that the record shows has a distinguished reputation. 
20 The Petitioner provided information indicating that "is a Japanese multinational technology company 
based in with a global presence in 49 countries and nearly 40,000 employees." 
6 
research and design organization at _______ comprised of five highly 
skilled designers. 
I initiated a project at the envisioning studio ... to create a post-pandemic business 
strategy based on observed signs of social changes. However, we faced challenges in 
envisioning post-COVID scenarios and stakeholder engagement, which led us to invite 
[the Petitioner] to join our project. ... I contacted [the Petitioner] directly and signed 
a contract between I land him. 
[The Petitioner] joined our project from May to October 2020 and led us to co-create 
scenarios of a post-pandemic society and I lrole in it. He conducted 
ten weekly two-hour Zoom workshop sessions with designers at the envisioning studio 
in Japan, utilizing the online whiteboard platform Miro for collaborative discussions .... 
[The Petitioner] was exceptionally skilled at using post-its and illustrations to select 
essential information, plan critical activities within a time frame, and lead to a feasible 
landing point. ... He led the entire project without any problems or delays and gave 
us the confidence to tackle the uncertainty and envision positive futures during the 
pandemic. 
In collaboration with [the Petitioner], designers at the envisioning studio visualized 
nine possible socio-technical scenarios for a post-pandemic world from 2025 to 2052 
and _____ future product concepts in each worldview. This unique and 
outstanding deliverables are now published on our envisioning studio's website . . . 
and [ the Petitioner's] name is also credited for his critical and irreplaceable contribution 
to this project. 
T-K-'s statements indicate that the Petitioner played a role in facilitating "collaborative discussions" 
at "ten weekly two-hour Zoom workshop sessions" during a six-month project within the company's 
six-person envisioning studio, but the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he performed in a leading 
or critical role for ____ and its nearly 40,000 employees. While T-K-further asserts that 
"[t]he project was also shared internally within thel I Design Center, and the tools and 
activities that [the Petitioner] provided us with have been used in subsequent projects as valuable 
company assets," his letter does not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record 
include adequate corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner's materials have significantly 
affected the _____ Design Center or "have been used in subsequent projects" throughout 
other parts of the company.21 Nor does T-K-'s letter offer specific examples or otherwise contain 
detailed and probative information to support his claims that the Petitioner's "work has made a lasting 
impact" and "completely transformed our organization, leading [the Petitioner] to play a critical role 
for ____ overall." 
21 T-K-'s letter does not specifically identify the "subsequent projects" in which the Petitioner's materials were used. 
7 
Here, the Petitioner did not provide an organizational chart or other similar evidence to establish where 
his role fit within the overall hierarchy ofl Ito demonstrate a leading role for the 
company. 22 Nor does the evidence demonstrate that the Petitioner has contributed to the company in 
a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of its corporate mission or business 
operations.23 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
While the Petitioner meets the authorship of scholarly articles and artistic display criteria, he has not 
established he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, published material, or leading or critical role. 
Because the Petitioner's inability to meet three of the initial criteria is dispositive of his appeal, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
We therefore reserve this issue. 24 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
22 The record includes a copy of the "Outsourcing Contract Agreement" between the Petitioner and ThisThis "Outsourcing Contract Agreement" supports the Director's statement that the Petitioner performed "contract 
work with the company on a project but not as an employee." We therefore disagree with the Petitioner's claim on appeal 
that the Director's statement was "an error of fact and highly misleading." 
23 For example, the Petitioner has not shown that his specific project materials have significantly increased _ 
product sales or business operations' efficiency. 
24 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 24, 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. 
8 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 8, 2024 In Re: 32868817 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an epidemiologist, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference 
(EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 201(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners in 
this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively 
document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met two of ten initial evidentiary criteria -one less than needed for a final merits 
determination . The Director also found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's required intent to 
continue working in her field in the United States. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that she sufficiently 
established her intent to work as a U.S. epidemiologist. She also contends that she met at least four 
additional evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude she has submitted evidence of her performance in a critical role for organizations 
with distinguished reputations and demonstrated her intent to continuing working in her field in the 
United States. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision and remand the matter for 
a final merits determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence must 
demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" or satisfaction 
of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the standards above and all other requirements, USCIS must then make 
a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their 
field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Russian native and citizen, has earned two doctoral degrees in 
epidemiology, which involves the incidence, distribution, and control of disease in defined 
populations. See Merriam-Webster Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com. Over a career of 
more than 35 years in Russia, she has served as a: city epidemiologist; chief executive office of an 
outpatient health center; strategic advisor to the country's health ministry; and director of a medical 
and biological agency. From 2010 to 2021, the Petitioner served as associate medical director of 
epidemiology at a Russian hospital and, since 2014, as a full professor of infectious diseases and 
epidemiology. The Petitioner states that, in the United States, she seeks to continue her research and 
teaching career in epidemiology. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner assert -her receipt of a major international 
award. She must therefore meet at least three of the ten lesser evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's findings that the Petitioner submitted evidence of her participation 
as a judge ofothers' work in her field and her authorship of scholarly articles in her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). On appeal, she contends that she also submitted documentation that she: 
• Received lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards in epidemiology; 
• Appeared as the subject of published materials relating to her work in the field; 
• Made original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• Performed in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (viii). 
A. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This criterion requires "[e ]vidence that the [ noncitizen] has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
When adjudicating this requirement, users first determines whether a petitioner has performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or its division or department. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that a petitioner "is (or was) a leader within 
the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof." Id. In contrast, a petitioner in 
a critical role "has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities." Id. 
Second, users determines whether the organization, establishment, department, or division for which 
the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. Id. The word 
"distinguished" means "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence" or "befitting an eminent 
person." Merriam-Webster Dictionary, supra. When determining the existence of a distinguished 
reputation, the Agency considers not only an organization's relative size and longevity, but also other 
relevant factors such as the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Director acknowledged evidence of the Petitioner's performance in a critical role for the hospital 
where she worked from 2010 to 2021. Letters from hospital supervisors state that the infection-control 
measures she developed and implemented allowed the facility to remain open for elective surgeries 
throughout the eOVID-19 pandemic. The hospital's chief medical officer stated that eOVID infected 
only 40 patients during a two-year period, with no eOVID-related deaths reported at the 300-bed 
facility. He said that more than 90% ofthe hospital's staffreceived vaccinations against the virus, and 
only I to 2% ofthem became infected. The chairman ofthe hospital's neuro intensive care department 
stated that the Petitioner has developed numerous protocols for Russian medical facilities "that have 
been ofcritical importance in keeping a range ofhealthcare options open throughout an unprecedented 
global pandemic." 
The Director found insufficient evidence that the hospital that employed the Petitioner has a 
distinguished reputation. But the Director overlooked proof. In response to the Director's request for 
additional evidence, the Petitioner submitted a copy of a 1997 article about the hospital in a 
professional journal. The article indicates that the hospital is almost 100 years old and describes the 
facility as "Russia's major scientific research and clinical center." The article details various 
breakthroughs that have occurred at the hospital in the fields of neuropsychology, endovascular 
neurosurgery, intensive care, and quantitative neuroanatomy. The Director noted that other evidence 
refers to the hospital by another- although similar-name. A preponderance ofthe evidence, however, 
indicates that both names refer to the same institution. Thus, contrary to the Director's decision, the 
Petitioner has submitted evidence of her performance in a critical role for organizations with 
distinguished reputations. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B) ("[A]lthough some of the regulatory 
language relating to evidence occasionally uses plurals, it is entirely possible that the presentation of 
a single piece of evidence in a specific evidentiary category may be sufficient.") 
The Petitioner has met three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. We therefore need not consider her 
arguments regarding her purported satisfaction of other evidentiary requirements. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 ( 1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
3 
B. Intent to Continue Working in the Field 
A petition for a noncitizen with extraordinary ability need not include a job offer. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h )(5). But the filing must include "clear evidence that the [ noncitizen] is corning to the United 
States to continue work in the area of expertise." Id. Such evidence may include: a letter from a 
prospective employer; evidence of "prearranged commitments;" or a petitioner's statement detailing 
their plans to continue their work in the United States. Id. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of a letter from the chairwoman of a U.S. 
medical school's anesthesiology department. But the Director concluded that "the letter does not 
demonstrate that you have prearranged commitments to continue working in the U.S." 
As the Petitioner argues, however, the letter states that she helped the school implement an infection 
control program and "would make a great candidate to lead" the program. The letter states: "Once 
she receives her certificate ofpermanent residency, we offer [the Petitioner] a permanent post and full 
access to the Department's resources so that she may continue her vital research." Also, the Petitioner 
previously stated her intent to continue researching and teaching epidemiology in the United States. 
Thus, contrary to the Director's decision, the Petitioner submitted evidence of her intent to continue 
working in her field in the United States. 
C. Remand 
The Petitioner has met at least three often initial evidentiary requirements and demonstrated her intent 
to continue working in her field in the United States. Thus, USCIS must now make a final merits 
determination on her petition. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B). 
The Petitioner urges us to make our own final merits determination, calling for our exercise ofde novo 
review. But the Director did not make a final merits determination for us to review, and we decline to 
make one in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must decide if the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and if her achievements have been recognized in her field, identifying her as one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Director 
should consider any potentially relevant evidence ofrecord, even ifit does not fit one ofthe regulatory 
criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The Director should base the petition's 
ultimate approval or denial on the type and quality of evidence submitted. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria and demonstrated her intent to 
continuing working in her field in the United States. USCIS must now make a final merits 
determination on her petition. 
4 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 8, 2024 In Re: 32717370 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a musician and vocal artist who seeks classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that although the record established that the Petitioner met at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria, she did not merit a favorable determination in a final merits analysis. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has studied the arts and in 2023 earned her foreign bachelor's degree in the field of art 
and singing. Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met five regulatory criteria. The Director 
decided that the Petitioner satisfied three criteria relating to published material, authorship of scholarly 
articles, and display of her work but that she had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or 
awards, or original contributions. The Director further decided that when considering all her evidence 
and claims, she did not demonstrate she enjoyed sustained acclaim or that her achievements reflect 
she is one of that small percentage who has risen to the top of her field. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that she meets the evidentiary criteria relating to prizes or awards and original contributions, 
but she does not contest the Director's final merits determination. 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's ultimate determination with the 
added comments below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. 
INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the practice ofadopting and affirming the decision below 
has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Antonio v. 
Garland, 58 F.4th 1067, 1072 (9th Cir. 2023) (joining every other U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in 
holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give 
"individualized consideration" to the case). 
As it relates to the Petitioner's lesser awards, when discussing two ofthe submitted awards the Director 
noted the supporting evidence (news articles) did not establish those accolades received national or 
international recognition as the regulation requires. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The Director 
indicated the Petitioner did not show that evidence was a form of major media, which might convey 
the requisite level of recognition in the field. The Director also noted some evidentiary deficiencies 
with the supporting material (the author's name was absent) and decided that decreased the value of 
those items. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues no requirement exists in USCIS' regulations or case law stating that 
she must submit press articles about her awards and that each press article must identify an author of 
the article. We agree with the Petitioner's statement that under the prizes or awards criterion, these 
elements are not compulsory. But the Director didn't mandate press articles, nor did they reject them 
because they lacked an author. After the Petitioner submitted articles as her supporting evidence, the 
2 
Director merely indicated that press coverage was one method to illustrate a prize or award is 
nationally or internationally recognized, and they are permitted to evaluate the quality of the evidence 
to decide the evidentiary weight each type ofmaterial should gamer. Ultimately, to determine whether 
a party has established eligibility for a requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence, the 
Director must examine each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility. 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. It appears this is what the Director did here. 
Additionally, within the appeal the Petitioner refers to an exhibit containing several pieces of evidence 
in their original filing without explaining what that evidence consists of, how it demonstrates she might 
satisfy this criterion's requirements, or how the Director might have erred in their decision. In visa 
petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act; 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 
2013). Commensurate with that burden is the responsibility for explaining the significance of 
proffered evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). Filing parties 
should not generally refer to a grouping ofevidence without notifying the appellate body ofthe specific 
documentation that corroborates their claims within that material, as doing so places an undue burden 
on the appellate body to search through the documentation without the aid of the filing party's 
knowledge. Nolasco-Amaya v. Garland, 14 F.4th 1007, 1012-13 (9th Cir. 2021) (citing Toquero v. 
INS, 956 F .2d 193, 196 n.4 (9th Cir. 1992)); Nazakat v. INS, 981 F .2d 1146, 1148 ( I 0th Cir. 1992). 
Regarding the scholarships the Petitioner received, the Director did not consider the scholarships as 
qualifying under this criterion. The Director indicated that academic study is not a field of endeavor 
and is instead training for a future field of endeavor. They also determined these were limited to other 
students, and counted them out of the running as sufficient evidence. The USCIS Policy Manual 
recognizes it is possible for some scholastic awards to qualify under the awards criterion provided they 
are not limited to persons within a single locality, employer, or school but "an award open to members 
of a well-known national institution (including an Rl or R2 doctoral university[]) or professional 
organization may be nationally recognized." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policyrnanual. The relevant factor is whether the filing party shows the award 
is recognized in the field at a national or an international level. Id. 
The material the Petitioner offered to demonstrate the scholarships were at least nationally recognized 
were press articles about the foundation that issued the scholarship. But the Petitioner only offered 
the actual articles and what was lacking was material showing those news outlets were a form ofmajor 
media or a prominent national-level news source. This fell short of the Petitioner's burden to 
demonstrate how the field views the scholarships or why the field considers the scholarships as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. Here, even though we are 
adopting and affirming the Director's determination under the prizes or awards criterion, we have also 
addressed some of the Petitioner's arguments raised in the appeal, but explained why we continue to 
agree with the Director. 
Because the Petitioner satisfied at least three regulatory criteria, the Director then evaluated whether 
she had demonstrated her sustained national or international acclaim, that she was one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements had been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, the Director analyzes the 
Petitioner's accomplishments and weighs the totality of the evidence to determine if her successes are 
3 
sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20). See 
also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
The Director's final merits determination evaluated the Petitioner's achievements and noted specific 
deficiencies relating to her awards, letters of support about her work, her scholarly articles, and her 
performances. But on appeal, the Petitioner does not contest any of the Director's findings relating to 
those broad categories and instead delivers a harangue about the propriety of USCIS performing a 
final merits determination. The brief then focuses the Petitioner's arguments on individual criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) instead of the actual basis for the Director's denial in the final 
merits, then closes vaguely asserting she has met the classification's requirements. 
The Petitioner's appeal brief is unresponsive to and has not adequately addressed the shortcomings 
the Director noted in the denial's final merits determination portion. Such uncontested issues are 
considered waived or forfeited on appeal and we will not address issues that are not adequately briefed. 
Matter ofF-C-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 788, 789 n.3, 791 n.6 (BIA 2024) (finding issues not challenged on 
appeal are waived). Because the brief does not address the specific reasons for the Director's denial, 
she has not demonstrated her sustained national or international acclaim and that she is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
Even if this was not the case, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for this 
classification. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 8, 2024 In Re: 32548595 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mixed martial arts (MMA) fighter, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary 
ability in the athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an athlete who competes as a lightweight (individuals who weigh up to 155 pounds) 
MMA fighter. At the time of filing the petition in December 2022, the Petitioner's competition record 
included about 13 Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) fights; he won around half ofthese fights. 1 
If approved this classification, he intends to continue competing in fighting matches, and when he is 
not competing, he plans to mentor "future American MMA athletes." 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that he met two of the ten 
alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which he must meet at least three. Specifically, 
the Director held that he met the plain language criteria for published material and high salary under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that: (1) he has received a major, internationally recognized award; 
and (2) he meets the following alternate criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), membership at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 2 For the reasons discussed below, we conclude that the record does not support a 
finding that the Petitioner satisfies the initial requirements for an individual of extraordinary ability. 
While we may not discuss every document submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Major International Award 
As determined by the Director, the Petitioner has not established that he has earned a one-time 
achievement of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). This 
regulation is consistent with the legislative history of section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A), stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationally recognized 
award. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 
200418 at *6739. 
1 The Petitioner must establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability at the time of filing the petition. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner did not assert, nor does the record show that he met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , 
(vi), (vii), or (x), relating to judging, scholarly articles, artistic display, or commercial success. We consider these issues 
to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner won a fighting match during the Ultimate Fighting 
Championship (UFC) 2016 I. The 
Petitioner asserted before the Director and again on appeal that this UFC win constitutes a one-time 
achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), acknowledging that the Petitioner had won a fighting 
match at I I and informed him that the initially submitted evidence did not substantiate his 
assertion that through winning this UFC fight he garnered a major international award. They discussed 
aspects of the Congressional House report mentioned above, noting that it specifically cited the Nobel 
Prize as an example ofa qualifying one-time achievement, stating that examples ofother awards which 
enjoy major, international recognition might include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and 
(most relevant for athletics) an Olympic Medal. They highlighted that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3) is consistent with this legislative history, explaining that the one-time achievement must 
be a major, internationally recognized award, and that the selection of Nobel Laureates, the example 
provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the 
awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. The Director 
also observed that while an internationally recognized major award could conceivably constitute a 
one-time achievement without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the example provided by 
Congress that the award must be global and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted that since "he defeated his opponent via guillotine choke 
in round two [atl I and was awarded a locker bonus for his outstanding performance, [t]his 
award definitely qualifies as a major internationally recognized award." He referenced evidence 
initially submitted with the petition as "proof'' ofthe receipt of such an award, pointing to the evidence 
in Exhibit 1, which contains an analysis of the fight from UPC.com and an article about the fight from 
bloodyelbow.com. After reviewing this evidence again, the Director determined that the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner has earned a major, internationally recognized award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends: 
The UFC, as a premier MMA organization, attracts fighters and audiences from around 
the world. The event where [the Petitioner] emerged victorious was not limited to a 
specific region but was part of the UFC's global reach. [The Petitioner's] win would 
have been reported in international sports media, contributing to his recognition on a 
global scale. 
Based on our de novo review ofthe evidence submitted in support ofthis initial eligibility requirement, 
we agree with the Director that the material falls far short in demonstrating that the Petitioner's! I 
I !qualifies as a major, internationally recognized award. The UPC.com material aboutl I 
notes that the Petitioner's fight against S-was one of four "preliminary card" matches that occurred 
that night, which were followed by four "main card" matches, and then by the "main event" -the fight 
between _______ While UPC.com reported that the Petitioner won his match in the 
preliminary card competitions, it did not offer analysis that suggests that winning this preliminary 
match constitutes the attainment of a major international award. 
3 
Similarly, the author who wrote the three-page article published on bloodyelbow.com discusses the 
various outcomes of the I I competitions but limited his discussion about the Petitioner's 
match to two sentences, stating on page three: "[The Petitioner] took advantage of a reckless [S-] and 
caught the I lin a guillotine choke that put him to sleep in the second round. Big win for 
[the Petitioner]." The brief mention about the Petitioner's match in this article does not suggest that 
the Petitioner's win against S-was commensurate with an achievement comparable to a major 
international award as required to meet this initial regulatory requirement. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his receipt of a UFC "locker bonus" for this win "is indicative of the 
significance of the achievement within the MMA community and further underscores its status as a 
major, internationally recognized award." We disagree. Here the Petitioner did not discuss the 
monetary magnitude of his bonus locker award, nor did he explain how this bonus constitutes the 
receipt of a "large cash prize" as contemplated by Congress in the House Report. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director "acted [in] violation of the due process oflaw" 
in finding that he did not possess the requisite major international award to meet the initial 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner does not identify the due process rights that are 
implicated in the adjudication of his extraordinary ability immigrant petition. See Lyng v. Payne, 
476 U.S. 926, 942 (1986) (stating that "[w]e have never held that applicants for benefits ... have a 
legitimate claim of entitlement protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fifth or Fourteenth 
Amendment."); see also Azizi v. Thornburgh, 908 F.2d 1130, 1134 (2d Cir. 1990) (explaining that the 
Fifth Amendment protects against the deprivation without due process of property rights granted to 
noncitizens; however, petitioners do not have an inherent property right in an immigrant visa). 
Though the Petitioner further asserts that the Director "acted arbitrarily and capriciously," and "erred 
as a matter of law and a matter of fact" in deciding that the evidence does not establish that the 
Petitioner has garnered a major international award, he does not identify any specific erroneous 
conclusions of law or statements of fact in the Director's decision. 3 For instance, he asserts that the 
Director did not explain the reasons why he determined that his I I win did not constitute a 
major international award. However, in the RFE the Director explained the statutory and regulatory 
framework for establishing eligibility for this initial regulatory requirement, identifying the types of 
awards that might be qualifying and giving the Petitioner notice that the initial evidence provided in 
support of the petition was insufficient and an opportunity to supplement the evidence of record. In 
response, the Petitioner pointed to his previously submitted evidence and insisted that this evidence 
was sufficient to meet the requirements. In the denial, the Director reiterated the information provided 
in the RFE about major international awards, and concluded the evidence regarding the Petitioner's I lwas insufficient to demonstrate this it is a major, internationally recognized prize or award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner devotes several pages of his appeal brief to detailing the statutory and 
regulatory framework, and the USCIS policy guidelines for this highly restrictive immigrant visa 
classification, and objects that the Director determined that he was not eligible for it. But simply 
disagreeing with the Director's determination is not sufficient to establish that the Director erred or 
3 The Petitioner offers similar assertions to support his contention that the Director erred in determining that he did not 
meet at least three of the alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We incorporate this discussion with respect to the 
Petitioner's contentions on appeal that he meets at least three of the alternate criteria. 
4 
acted arbitrarily and capriciously at arriving at their conclusion that he is ineligible. Based upon our 
de novo review, we do not find support for the Petitioner's claims that the decision is arbitrary, 
capricious, and that the Director erred as a matter of law and matter of fact. Rather, the Director's 
decision discussed and analyzed the evidence in the record consistent with the statutory, regulatory 
and USCIS policy framework for this classification. Moreover, we agree with the Director's 
determinations. 
Here, the Petitioner has not met his burden by submitting documentary evidence sufficient to show 
that his I I win was globally reported in international sports media to support his assertions 
to that effect on appeal. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. We conclude the 
Petitioner has not submitted probative documentary evidence to establish his assertion that he garnered 
"global" recognition for this win, or that there are other factors sufficiently documented in the record 
to establish his eligibility for this initial evidentiary requirement. In evaluating the evidence, eligibility 
is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. Matter ofChawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. at 376. The Petitioner's assertions, without probative evidence to substantiate them, do not 
establish his eligibility. This initial regulatory requirement has not been met. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner continues to contend that he has won major UFC awards. Although he has provided 
information regarding UFC, judges, statistics, rules, media coverage and photos, the evidence is 
insufficient to establish that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. A UFC competition may be open to athletes from throughout a 
particular country or countries, but this factor alone is not adequate to establish that an award or prize 
from that competition is nationally or internationally recognized. The burden is on the Petitioner to 
demonstrate the level of recognition and achievement associated with his awards. The submitted 
documentation does not establish that the Petitioner's awards had a substantial level of recognition 
beyond the context of the event where it was presented and was therefore commensurate with a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence about his black belt ranking, but evidence about this 
certification does not equate to nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the field. The black belt certificate reflects that the Petitioner earned a promotion in rank based on 
his successful completion of a jiu-jitsu skills test, but he has not established that his promotion to this 
rank constitutes either a prize or an award, nor has he submitted documentation, such as media reports, 
demonstrating that his rank has received national or international recognition. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
5 
The Petitioner claimed membership with UFC and submitted documentation regarding the entity. 
Although the Petitioner provided a printout from UFC's website entitled "Apply to Be a Fighter," the 
document only provides a website address for fighters to create a profile to submit their application. 
The documentation did not show UFC's membership requirements. The Petitioner has also provided 
his UFC fighter profile, promotional agreements and contracts with UFC promoters. The Director 
determined that he had not met this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petititioner offers no new evidence about UFC's membership requirements and asserts 
that "the UFC's selection process is highly competitive and based on the exceptional achievements of 
prospective members." However, he has not offered documentary evidence sufficient to support his 
assertions. Chawathe, supra. Thus, the Petitioner has not shown that membership with UFC requires 
outstanding achievements as an essential condition for membership. Therefore, he does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that his MMA fights and tournaments serve as evidence of his original 
contributions of major significance in the field. While he demonstrated that he participated in MMA­
related events, the Petitioner has not shown how such participation is tantamount to original 
contributions of major significance in the field. He did not, for instance, point to a particular match 
or provide a specific example explaining its impact or unusual importance to MMA. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to consider the letters of support submitted 
by MMA experts and, therefore, it is violation of due process. The letters discuss the Petitioner's 
achievements as an MMA fighter, as well as his signature move called the _____ The 
letters, however, do not provide specific information explaining how the Petitioner's signature move 
has influenced the MMA field in a significant manner beyond its impact on the Petitioner winning his 
own UFC fights. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). The 
letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are ofmajor significance to the field 
may provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major significance, 
particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed significance. 4 On the 
other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that forms the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 Moreover, USCIS 
need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 
15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affdin part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
While the Petitioner has competed in MMA fights and participated in extensive martial arts training, 
he has not shown how these activities equate to "original" athletic contributions of major significance 
in the field. According to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the contributions must be not 
only original but of major significance. While this suggests that he is knowledgeable and skilled in 
MMA, it does not establish that he has made original athletic contributions of major significance in 
the field. Although the Petitioner has earned the admiration of his references, the evidence submitted 
does not demonstrate that his impact on the sport is commensurate with an original athletic 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has won some UFC fights, but the record does not demonstrate the required 
sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643786 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 9, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially approved the petition, but then revoked that 
approval, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner had established eligibility for 
the immigrant classification he sought. The Director reopened the proceeding on the Petitioner 's 
motion, and again revoked the approval of the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
We are summarily dismissing the appeal because it does not specifically identify any erroneous 
conclusion oflaw or statement of fact in the unfavorable decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The appeal includes an affidavit in which the Petitioner describes the lengthy procedural history from 
2016 to 2020, as well as issues that arose relating to the Petitioner's Form I-485, Application to 
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. The Petitioner asserts that "this process has turned 
out to be highly stressful." Neither the affidavit nor counsel's accompanying letter, however, includes 
any substantive response to the five specific grounds for revocation described in the November 10, 
2020 notice of decision. 
The Petitioner must specifically identify erroneous conclusions of law or statements of fact in the 
decision notice. Assertions about the procedural history that preceded the issuance of that notice 
cannot suffice as grounds for a substantive appeal. 
Accordingly, we must summarily dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) . U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20619060 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 09, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a neurosurgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a resident physician in neurosurgery at the University of I I He obtained his medical degree in2012 from the University of lin Brazil, 
is board certified by the Brazilian Society of Neurosurgery (SBN) and the Brazilian Academy of 
Neurosurgery (ABNc), and obtained a license as a physician and surgeon inc=] in 2020. The 
Petitioner states that he intends to continue to work as a neurosurgeon in the United States, as well as 
pursuing research and teaching goals. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others and his 
authorship of scholarly articles, and after review we agree with those conclusions. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he also meets five additional evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards.for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the evidence must show that any prizes or awards received by a petitioner were 
granted based upon excellence in the field of endeavor, and that they are recognized in the field at 1he 
national or international level. Here, the Petitioner submitted several certificates he earned, including 
four which were awarded by institutions he attended as part of his education and training. Letters 
from individuals associated with those institutions explain that candidates for those awards were 
limited to resident physicians and others within the respective institutions, and were based upon the 
Petitioner's performance as a resident physician. Such limitations on the candidates for those awards 
is a relevant factor in determining whether they were awarded for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manuaf F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. In 
addition, the record does not include evidence showing that these four awards were recognized by 1he 
2 
field in general or others in the field outside of those institutions. As such, we agree with the Director 
that the evidence does not establish that these four awards were awarded for excellence in the field 
and are nationally or internationally recognized within the field of neurosurgery. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he received another award from one of these institutions, 
which he refers to as an "Honor to Merit and Academic Excellence" award. However, the record does 
not include evidence from the awarding institution which verifies his receipt of this award. 
The remaining award claimed by the Petitioner in support of this criterion is the I I 2018" award from ABNc. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to three letters submitted by 
experts in the field of neurosurgery in support of the national or international recognition of this award. 
We first note that only one of these individualsJ lof thel I 
I lin Brazil, states that he is a member of ABNc, and he does not indicate that he has played any 
role in the awarding or administration of this award. In addition, despite his relationship with the 
awarding association, his letter does not provide any additional detail about the award than the other 
two letters. All three letters state only that the award is given to a neurosurgeon! I 
____ years of experience in the field, and is based upon contributions to the field over the 
past year. These statements are not supported by any rules, guidelines, or statements from an official 
of the ABN c. Further, the record does not include additional evidence beyond these letters to support 
the national or international recognition of this award in the field of neurosurgery. While we 
acknowledge the title of the award and its issuance by what appears to be one of two professional 
neurosurgery associations in Brazil, the record is insufficient to establish by a preponderance of the 
evidence that it is nationally or internationally recognized in the field. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he is a member of several professional associations, including 
ABNc and SBN, as well as the North American Skull Base Society (NASBS) and American 
Association of Neurological Surgeons. In his decision, the Director noted that associations with 
membership requirements such as employment in a certain occupation, a minimum level of education, 
training or experience, and paying annual dues do not require outstanding achievements of their 
members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to previously submitted evidence of the membership requirements of 
these associations. For example, he points to the membership requirements for full members of the 
ABNc, 1 which include practicing in the neurosurgery specialty, completing a residency, and 
submitting a curriculum vitae and recommendations from three current full members for review by 
the deliberative council. Similarly, NASBS requires its international members to have a doctorate 
1 Although the Petitioner refers to these as coming from the association's bylaws, the evidence appears to be simply a page 
on theABNc'swebsite. 
3 
degree, a qualification in the neurosurgery specialty, and to have engaged in practice with clinical 
experience and proficiency in a field related to skull base surgery. The application process requires a 
proposal from one voting member, approval by the Board of Directors and endorsement by a majority 
of voting members. All of the evidence submitted regarding the membership requirements of these 
associations show similar requirements, none of which the Petitioner has shown are unusual or go far 
beyond the minimum requirements for employment as a neurosurgeon. 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the review process for each of these associations shows that they 
require outstanding achievements as judged by national or international experts. However, the 
materials regarding most of these associations do not include any specific criteria used by existing 
members in the voting process, 2 and the Petitioner does not suggest that qualities such as ethics and 
moral character, mentioned in some of the membership requirements, are considered to be outstanding 
among neurosurgeons. Further, there is no evidence in the record regarding the national or 
international recognition of each of the voting members for these associations. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his membership in the neurosurgery residency program at the 
University o:tc=J qualifies under this criteria, but provides no evidence that the selection process 
required outstanding achievements or was judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
Having reviewed the evidence submitted under this criterion, we agree with the Director and conclude 
that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record includes two articles, published on the websites jblittoral.com.br and 
revistasaudenews.com.br., both of which feature a photograph and information about the Petitioner 
and his work as a neorsurgeon. The Saude News article does not include the required author 
information, and appears to either have been written by the Petitioner or, as the Director suggested, is 
an advertisement for his practice. Since neither autobiographical materials nor marketing materials 
are generally considered to be about a petitioner, this evidence does not qualify under this criterion. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices. 
Turning to the JB Littoral article, it does have the required author, date and title information, but only 
the opening paragraph is in English, with the actual interview of the Petitioner in Portuguese. This 
material does not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3)regardingtranslations of documents 
in a foreign language, and therefore cannot be considered. 
2 We note that a letterwas submitted from the President of ABNcwhich states that a reviewpanelofthree currentmembers 
considers factors such as "a prominent and distinguished career in the field, with significant contributions to the field of 
neurosurgery, and great potential for future contributions" and "substantially above average aptitude found in the field of 
neurosurgery." However, we note that none of these factors are reflected on the ABNc's webpage, and that despite his 
assertion the Petitioner did not submit the association's bylaws. 
4 
Also, while the Petitioner asserts that both of these websites are professional publications, the evidence 
does not support this conclusion. Considering the evidence in support of the Saude News article, while 
the website's own description states that it focuses on health, suggesting that it may be a professional 
publication as the Petitioner asserts, this includes a broader scope including "well-being, sport, 
citizenship, social projects, education, tourism, technological potentials in favor of public health, 
among others." It also indicates that physical copies are distributed to medical clinics, but also "gyms, 
shopping malls, beauty centers, beauty institutes, prominent restaurants." This evidence does not show 
that the magazine or its website is produced by professionals in the medical or neurosurgical fields, or 
that its intended audience is primarily medical professionals. In addition, the "domain review" 
evidence pertaining to the JB Littoral website provides no information about its focus or intended 
audience, and thus lends no support for the Petitioner's assertion that it is a professional publication. 
Therefore, we conclude that neither of these publications qualify as professional. 
Given the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scienttfic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates many of the same claims he made in his initial submission and in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), in several instances using identical language. 
He focuses on a handful of papers which he co-authored which were published in medical journals, 
and refers to reference letters which discuss the contributions made by the research that was published. 
We note that many of the authors of these letters indicate that they have never worked with the 
Petitioner and do not personally know him. 
One of the two articles co-authored by the Petitioner which were published in the Journal of 
Neurointerventional Surgery (JNIS) in 2019 concerns research on use of I in 
cerebrovascular surgery. Several of the reference letters initially submitted make brief statements that 
this research was the first to validate the use o in such surgeries. 3 For exampleJ I I I of the Universi of wrote that this research "has been fundamental as 
the first use of in neurointerventional treatments." Also,I I at the 
University o states this research "majorly impacted the field with a new 
groundbreaking use of as adjuvant in interventional treatment of cerebrovascular 
conditions." While both of these letters describe this research as an important contribution to the field, 
neither they nor other letters initially submitted explain how or why the use of I in these 
procedures was of major significance to the field. 
3 All reference letters in the record have beenreviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
In his response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted additional letters, including a second 
letter from lnotes that this research was presented at the 2019 
International Stroke Conference, and describes the benefits of using in procedures for treating 
stroke. He also states that this has "changed the game for complex cerebrovascular cases," and has 
"improved the care for hundreds of thousands nationwide." However, another letter submitted with 
the RFE response, written by indicates that this research provides the field with 
"the possibility of usin-,__ in an effective and much safer way" than I and "will 
impact the field in an invaluable now and in many years to come." In order to meet this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that he has already made a contribution of major significance, not that his 
contribution has the potential to be of major significance in the future. None of the letters submitted 
indicate that the use of has been widely adopted or become standard practice in the field of 
neurosurgery, or even that its use has been adopted at the institutions where the letter writers practice. 
Fmiher, we note that the Petitioner and his co-authors concluded that their research "suggest(s) that I I is a promising alternative ... " and that "further studies with larger samples are required." 
While we acknowledge that medical research is collaborative and that researchers build upon the work 
of others, this evidence does not establish that the preliminary research conducted by the Petitioner 
has advanced the field of neurosurgery to the extent that it is of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asse1is that other original contributions he has made have been of major 
significance to the field of neurosurgery. Two published papers he co-authored in 2019, in JNIS and 
World Neurosurgery, focused on treatments for cerebral! I As with the I I research 
discussed above, the Petitioner focuses on statements in the reference letters in the record. I I who was one of his co-authors on the World Neurosurgerv article writes in his first letter 
that that review article "has set new parameters for current basis ofl treatment allowing new 
devices to be compared more easily ... ," noting that this "unquestionably helps healthcare providers in 
deciding which technology will be helpful or not." He expands upon the JNIS article in his second 
letter, stating that this paper showed that the I technique is "an important, safe and equivalent 
alternative to • , I I indicates that the techniques' 
importance lies in it being a cheaper alternative, but mentions this cost savings in prospective terms 
only . 
____ also discusses the impact of the World Neurosurgery article in his letter, which he states 
provides patients with hard data to compare the different types of treatments available for treating I I He goes on to state thatthe paper "will be long used whenever new devices and modalities 
arise" since it will serve as a comparative baseline. As we noted above, in order to meet this criterion 
the Petitioner must show that his contributions have already been of major significance. Here, he has 
not met that burden, since the reference letters he relies upon offer projections of future impact to the 
field. 
The Petitioner also refers to the number of citations to all of his published research on appeal, which 
according to his profile in Google Scholar numbered 80 with his initial filing and 111 at the time of 
his RFE response. But although the total number of citations to his work is one factor that would be 
appropriate to consider as a measure of his acclaim in a final merits determination, it is less relevant 
when focusing on specific contributions to his field. When looking at the individual papers discussed 
above, the evidence shows that two of the three were his most cited works, but this does not reflect 
their overall impact in the field of neurosurgery. The Petitioner correctly notes that the former 
6 
Adjudicator's Field Manual, now the USCIS Policy Manual, states that peer-reviewed articles that 
have "provoked widespread commentary" or have "entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation 
index that cite the Person's work as authoritative in the field" are helpful in determining the 
significance of the person's contributions to their field. But it remains for a petitioner to submit 
evidence demonstrating that a certain total number or rate of citations constitutes a "goodly number" 
in a certain field, and that the work is cited as authoritative. In this case, the record lacks such 
documentary evidence. Some of the reference letters, such as the one submitted by I I I I state that achieving a total number of citations in the field of neurosurgery similar to the 
Petitioner's can take several decades, butthese statements are not supported by documentary evidence, 
and are not relevant in determining whether his original contributions have been of major significance. 
Upon reviewing the evidence described above, including the remaining reference letters, we conclude 
that it does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant imp01iance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, 
Appendices. 
The Director determined in his decision that the reference letters in the record were insufficient to 
establish that the Petitioner played a leading or critical role fo or 
for the University of I On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on what he asserts were leading roles for 
I land the 
Ac=] the evidence indicates that the Petitioner served as Leading Research Fellow from July to 
December of 2018, which included "guiding and leading the research team and fellows." I I I !Director of the I I states that during this six-month period the Petitioner "was able to 
successfully coordinate and integrate the research team with the clinical team." In another letter, he 
went into further detail, explaining that the Petitioner "implemented key meetings and tasks for each 
team member" and that he had the "final decision" regarding projects, schedules and research 
decisions. However, the letters do not explain the research team's position within the 
organization for which the Petitioner asserts he played a leading role, nor does the record include an 
organizational chart or similar evidence which would place the Leading Research Fellow position 
within the organization's overall hierarchy. While the letters show that the Petitioner played a leading 
role forl I research team, they do not show that it was leading for 
The record also indicates that at the Petitioner served as the Chief Resident of Neurosurgery 
during the 2017 academic year. I I Director and CEO of thel I explains that 
7 
the role typically includes organizational and administrative duties, but that the Petitioner also 
completed several projects during this time, such as developing and implementing a visiting physician 
referral system and developing a surgical training lab forresidents at As with the above evidence, 
this evidence does not explain the chief resident position in terms of its place in the overall hierarchy 
of and thus does not demonstrate that it was a leading role for the institute overall, which is the 
basis for the Petitioner's claim. 
In addition, the evidence concerning each of these organizations does not establish that they have a 
distinguished reputation. The materials concerning include only a short paragraph from the I !website stating that and a listing of 
accreditations forl I However, this self-promotional statement is not supported by 
documentary evidence of I reputation from other organizations in the field of neurosurgery, and 
the evidence does not sufficiently explain the relationship between! I accreditations and I I reputation in neurosurgery. 
Regarding I reputation, the Petitioner submitted what appears to be a press release posted on a 
Brazilian website which states that the institute was awarded "Best of the Year" in the health category 
by a Brazilian newspaper in the state of I This press release indicates that the award is voted 
on by the newspapers journalists, and is intended "to show and value the good personal and business 
initiatives developed in I It therefore does not show thatD has a distinguished reputation 
amongst similar institutions or in the overall field of neurosurgery. 
For all of the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l990);seealso section203(b)(1XA) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
8 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 09. 2023 In Re: 27886143 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (National Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner , a mechanical engineering technical specialist , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which require 
documentation of a one-time achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's 
subsequent appeal. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, which we 
dismissed because it was filed untimely. Subsequently , the Petitioner filed a second appeal, which we 
rejected as improperly filed, and five subsequent combined motions to reopen and reconsider , which 
we also dismissed . The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
As noted, this matter is before us on a seventh motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner's 
current motion includes a brief that largely reiterates his prior arguments that we erred in our previous 
decisions and that the Director abused the discretion of USCIS by denying his petition. The 
Petitioner's brief conflates some of those decisions and the filing history. For clarity and to provide 
context for the Petitioner's claims regarding his previous filings, we summarize the procedural history 
below. 
July 201 7 The Petitioner filed the petition for consideration under the EB-1 classification. 
August 2018 The Director denied the Petitioner's immigrant petition, concluding that the 
Petitioner had not established eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to our office and stated that he 
would submit a brief and/or additional evidence within 30 days. The record did not 
show that he submitted those materials within that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not 
identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
decision being appealed. 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal; the record did not 
show, and the Petitioner did not claim, that he submitted supporting evidence within 
the required 30-day period. Rather, the Petitioner addressed the grounds for denial 
of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We dismissed the Petitioner's motion as untimely because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in 
filing. 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal because the regulations provide no provision for a petitioner 
to appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider in which 
he sought both to explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to 
submit new evidence in support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We dismissed the motion to reconsider. However, we granted the Petitioner's 
motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part. We excused the delay in filing 
the January 2019 motion under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), but we 
also determined that the Petitioner had not submitted new facts on motion to 
overcome our summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
2 
July 2020 The Petitioner filed a third combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
February 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our July 2020 decision. In our 
decision, we also briefly addressed some of the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
in support of his claim that he is eligible for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act. We explained why this 
evidence did not satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
March 2021 The Petitioner filed a fourth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
July 2021 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our February 2021 decision. 
September 2021 The Petitioner filed a fifth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
He presented a new claim that he had, in fact, filed timely supporting evidence for 
his initial appeal of the Director's decision. 
May 2022 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding, in part, that while the Petitioner 
claimed that he had filed timely supporting evidence, he did not include 
documentation, such as proof of mailing or a copy of a brief: to demonstrate his 
claim. We concluded that the Petitioner he had not shown proper cause for the 
reopening or reconsideration of our July 2021 decision. 
July 2022 The Petitioner filed a sixth combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
January 2023 We dismissed the Petitioner's motions, concluding that he had not shown proper 
cause for the reopening or reconsideration of our May 2022 decision. 
As to the present combined motions, the issues are whether the Petitioner: ( 1) has submitted new facts, 
supported by documentary evidence, to warrant reopening, and (2) has established that we incorrectly 
applied the law or USCIS policy in dismissing his sixth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The matters the Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues discussed 
within our most recent decision, which is the decision to dismiss the Petitioner's sixth motion. General 
support that a motion must first overcome the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)-(3), which discusses requirements for reopening and reconsideration that 
include the underlying or latest decision, the time limits in which one may file a motion after the most 
recent decision, as well as jurisdiction resting with the entity who made the latest decision. This 
demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the most recent adverse decision before 
the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose in a previous petition, appeal, or 
motion filing. 
As discussed in our previous decisions, which we incorporate here by reference, the Petitioner has 
repeatedly requested that we reopen his appeal and address the merits of his claim that he meets the 
eligibility requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability at section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. In September 2018, the Petitioner filed an appeal that was not accompanied 
3 
by a statement or other evidence identifying the basis for the appeal. Although he indicated on the 
Form I-290B that he would provide a brief and/or additional evidence to our office within 30 days in 
order to meet this requirement, the record reflects that he did not do so. We summarily dismissed the 
appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), which requires summary dismissal of an 
appeal that does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
decision being appealed. As we explained in our prior decisions on motions that subsequently 
followed the appeal dismissal, the only way the Petitioner may succeed on a motion and have his 
appeal reopened is to cure the deficiencies that led to the summary dismissal of his appeal. Absent 
evidence that he submitted a brief or other evidence identifying the basis for his appeal of the 
Director's decision within 30 days of filing his appeal in September 2018, the Petitioner cannot 
establish proper cause to reopen that appeal. 
The Petitioner has previously emphasized and currently reiterates that, in our decision summarily 
dismissing the appeal, we advised him that he could file a motion to reopen and/or reconsider. As 
reflected in the procedural history summarized above, he initially filed an untimely motion in response 
to the summary dismissal of his appeal. Although we initially dismissed the motion as untimely, we 
later reviewed the motion to reopen on its merits after exercising our discretion to excuse the late 
filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). However, as discussed in our July 2020 decision, the motion to 
reopen did not include evidence showing proper cause to reopen the appeal because it did not include 
new facts or evidence to overcome the dismissal ofthe appeal; the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
he had filed a brief or other statement in support of the appeal or otherwise show that the summary 
dismissal of the appeal was not warranted. The Petitioner was informed that the purpose of a motion 
following the dismissal of an appeal is to address issues raised in the appellate decision, not to revisit 
the Director's initial adverse decision. 
The Petitioner has filed several motions alleging errors in the Director's decision, and these motions 
were dismissed with the explanation that the Petitioner must first address the contents of the most 
recent decision-in these instances, his successive combined motion dismissals. Our last dismissal, 
issued in January 2023, informed the Petitioner that multiple motion filings serve to thwart the strong 
public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in immigration proceedings where every delay 
works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to remain in the United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz 
v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) 
and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). The dismissal explained that USCIS has the latitude 
and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely can create endless 
delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government resources attending to 
repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing party bears a "heavy 
burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with each subsequent 
motion filing. Id. 
The present combined motions reiterate the Petitioner's arguments from previous motions that the 
dismissed appeal should be reopened and that the denial of his petition was in error. As previously 
explained, the Petitioner's opportunity to allege specific errors in the Director's denial decision was 
in the appeal filed in September 2018, and the record reflects that the Petitioner did not avail himself 
of this opportunity by submitting evidence of his arguments within 30 days of filing the appeal. The 
filing of the appeal did not create or preserve any right for the Petitioner to dispute the Director's 
4 
denial in subsequent motions. The combined motions do not include new evidence or describe any 
error involved in the most recent decision from January 2023. 
For these reasons, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his sixth motion 
dismissal through new evidence in this motion to reopen, nor has he established that the decision was 
based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy necessary to meet the requirements for filing 
a motion to reconsider. Although the Petitioner generally asserts that USCIS failed to consider his 
documentary evidence, he does not address what material this office failed to consider in our January 
2023 dismissal. The current motion does not establish that our most recent decision was incorrect. 
Rather, the Petitioner seeks to reach back to earlier stages of the proceeding that are outside the scope 
of this sixth motion. The Petitioner has not submitted new facts or evidence sufficient to overcome 
our determination that summary dismissal was the proper and required outcome when presented with 
an appeal that contained no specific allegations of error in fact or law. The Petitioner has not shown 
proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Therefore, we will only consider new evidence to the extent that it 
pertains to our latest decision dismissing the motion to reopen. Here, the Petitioner has not provided 
new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the prior motion. Because the Petitioner has not 
established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, we have no basis to reopen our 
prior decision. We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew based on the present motion to reopen and, 
therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). The Petitioner's contentions in the current motion merely reargue facts 
and issues we have already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in 
essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the 
prior Board decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew based on the present motion to 
reconsider and, therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 09, 2023 In Re: 28016417 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a social worker, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through his 
receipt ofa major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a social worker who is currently employed by~------------~ 
i~ IAlabama as its Director ofResearch Programs. He earned a master's degree in social 
work from the University of Alabama atl Iin 2020, and has worked as a social 
worker since. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
two evidentiary criteria which the Director evaluated in his decision, those relating to his authorship 
of scholarly articles and a leading or critical role for an organization having a distinguished reputation, 
but does not explain how he believes the Director erred in his decision regarding those criteria. He 
also submits additional evidence in support ofthose two criteria. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been 
put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that 
deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). In this case, the 
Director stated in his request for evidence (RFE) that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence relating 
to those two criteria, and provided a list of evidence that could be submitted. 
Even if we were to consider this new evidence submitted on appeal, it would not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility under these two criteria. In support ofthe criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), 
the Petitioner submits two manuscripts which list him as an author and are scholarly in nature. 
However, that criterion also requires that those scholarly articles be in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, and the evidence does not show that either of these articles had 
been published at the time the petition was filed. A petitioner must establish eligibility for the 
requested benefit at the time a petition is filed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) relating to a leading or critical role for an 
organization having a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submits documents relating to the 
2 
formation of0 including its tax-exempt status, as well as information about its history and recent 
accomplishments. However, the Petitioner does not refer to any evidence ofl Irecognition or 
reputation as a social services provider. 
Although we note that the record also includes evidence ofthe Petitioner's membership in an academic 
honor society and his rrognTon as an outstanding graduate student in social work from the College 
of Arts and Sciences at he does not explicitly claim to meet the related criteria on appeal, nor 
did he do so in his initial filing or in response to the Director's RFE. As stated above, it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 
2010). 1 
The Petitioner also refers to the Director's decision regarding the requirement at section 
203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A)(iii), that an individual's entry into the United 
States will be of substantial prospective benefit. However, he does not explain on appeal how the 
record shows that he meets this requirement. In addition, although he asserts that the record shows 
that he has "met all required criteria," this is not one of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As the Petitioner has challenged the Director's decision regarding only two 
of the evidentiary criteria, he cannot meet the requisite three criteria in order to satisfy the initial 
evidence requirement as an individual of extraordinary ability. Accordingly, he has not established 
his eligibility for the requested classification, and we need not conduct a final merits determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the initial evidence requirement by meeting at least 
three of the evidentiary criteria, and he has therefore not shown his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 We fiuiher note that a review ofthe record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's award is nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), or that an academic honor society is in the 
field for which classification is sought and that membership requires outstanding achievements as judged by national or 
international experts, as required by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 9, 2024 In Re: 31824044 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner stated that he accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which have 
been recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
eight of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii) membership in associations that require outstanding achievements 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (v), original contributions of major significance 
• (vi), authorship of scholarly articles 
• (vii), display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met one criterion pertaining to the display of his work which 
we will not disturb. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation ofEvidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that he was awarded first place in the selection process for a 
substitute professor position at the public university and a first-place designation for his master's 
degree in civil engineering. The Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that these 
achievements constitute prizes or awards, rather than professional credentials. Regarding the selection 
process for a position as a substitute professor, the Petitioner states on appeal that the selection process 
at public universities in Brazil involve a "comprehensive and competitive process that aims to identify 
individuals with exceptional qualifications in their particular fields," and is open to all Brazilians and 
resident immigrants. The Petitioner further explains that the selection process is published in the 
official gazette of the federal government or state government, and states that the selection process 
will include the judgement of titles and taking tests, and then a selection committee "assesses every 
facet of candidates' performance across various stages of the process." On appeal, the Petitioner 
submits copies of the job vacancy announcements posted in the newspaper. 
However, the record does not contain sufficient information or evidence to support the Petitioner's 
claim that his selection for the position as a substitute professor should be considered a nationally or 
internationally award for excellence in his field. The Petitioner does not sufficiently explain how this 
selection process is an award rather than a job opening advertisement that requires a person to hold 
certain qualifications to fill the position. Even if being selected to fill a job vacancy could be 
considered a prize or award, which in this case it does not, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient 
documentation regarding the individuals who determine who is selected for the substitute teacher 
position, and the record does not contain official results or other evidence demonstrating the number 
of individuals who applied for the substitute teacher position, and the level of recognition associated 
with this alleged award. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that the substitute teacher position is 
nationally recognized because the job vacancy is posted in the "official gazette" and open to all 
nationals and residents, but the record lacks sufficient evidence verifying that this job position is a 
nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, or evidence that the 
Petitioner himself received any recognition from outside the issuing organization. 
The Petitioner also asserts that he received first place designation for his master's degree obtained at 
a public university that follows a similar public selection process as noted above. The Petitioner 
asserts that he went through the selection process with national applicants and therefore this award 
represents a nationally recognized prize or award for excellence. The petitioner did not provide 
sufficient evidence regarding the rules and selection process for granting the first-place designation 
for a master's degree, official results for the entire competition, the number ofcompetitors and winners 
in each age and category, or other evidence related to the specific category in which he received this 
2 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
3 
designation. Further, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to determine that the 
Petitioner's first place designation is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates he received awards when the thesis he wrote in his bachelor's 
program was chosen as "best work" for that year, and when he was recognized as "best professor" 
from three different universities. However, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information or 
documentation to overcome the Director's concerns regarding these recognitions and whether they in 
fact constitute a prize or award. Again, even if the Petitioner could satisfy the issue as to whether 
these acknowledgements are awards, he did not provide sufficient evidence regarding the rules and 
selection process for these recognitions, official results for the entire competition, the number of 
competitors, or whether these recognitions are nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership of the Federal Council 
of Architecture and Urbanism (CAU) and the state board of architecture and urbanism for the state of 
Minas Gerais, Brazil (CAU/MG). U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines if 
the association for which the person claims membership requires that members have outstanding 
achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements are required for 
membership in this organization, or that it relies on recognized national or international experts to 
determine which individuals qualify for membership. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that CAU is the "most prestigious and exclusive architectural 
organization in Brazil" and to qualify for a CAU license, a person must have a bachelor's degree in 
architecture and must comply with "bureaucratic requirements." The Director noted in his decision 
that it appears the Petitioner is a licensed professional of CAU but not an actual member. On appeal, 
the Petitioner did not provide documentation to show he is a member of CAU and did not submit 
information ofthe entry requirements to become a member. Further, the record does not show whether 
CAU requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, in 
order to become a member. It is insufficient to allege eligibility through conclusory assertions that are 
4 
not supported by sufficient evidence, which proves the allegation. 3 The record does not contain 
sufficient documentary evidence to demonstrate the membership eligibility requirements for the claimed 
association, how members are selected, and whether membership was based on being judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field of protective 
services. Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted online articles from various websites and publications. In his decision, the 
Director indicated that he reviewed the articles submitted and found that none of the articles met plain 
language requirements of the regulation since some articles were not fully translated into the English 
language, some lacked the URL address or the author, some articles were not about the Petitioner, and 
the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish that the cited sources qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Director's decision noted the material provided regarding the Petitioner's participation as a guest 
commentator of the Radio Vivo Program were given little probative value because the Petitioner did 
not provide a full transcript of the program. On appeal, the Petitioner states that the radio program 
could not provide a full transcript of the program but instead he provided a certificate attesting to his 
participation as a guest commentator. Further, he contends that even though the record lacks the full 
transcript, the titles of the radio programs are directly related to his work as a professor and researcher 
in architecture and civil engineering. Without a full transcript, it is impossible to determine the radio 
programs are about the Petitioner and related to his specific work. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
provide documentation to indicate this radio station qualifies as major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states the articles posted on bheventos.com.br and minasfazciencia.com.br 
indicate the author's name and dates in the URL address. On appeal, the Petitioner provided print-out 
copies of google searches of the articles to indicate dates and author. The Petitioner also submits a 
letter from the "editor-chefe" of Minas Faz Ciencia noting that the magazine has a circulation of 
25,000 copies per edition. The record does not provide sufficient evidence regarding the circulation 
statistics for both websites above and the significance of the statistics compared to other publications 
or elaborate on how that information could establish that the websites are the type of major media 
contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner re-submits an article he authored that was published in O Tempo. However, the 
Petitioner did not present sufficient evidence to establish this online article was published in major 
3 Matter ofHo, 22 l&N Dec. 206,213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
5 
media. On appeal, the Petitioner re-submits a letter from the general writing coordinator at O Tempo 
who states that the specific article submitted by the Petitioner with this petition was published in the 
print newspaper with a circulation of 3,000 editions, and available in the online portal whereby the 
link received 7,523 accesses. However, the record does not contextualize this statistic, indicate its 
significance, or elaborate on how that information could establish that the website is the type of major 
media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than having major significance to 
a project or to an organization. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022)(citing 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 2013)). The regulatory phrase "major 
significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 
(2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute is to be given effect and none should 
needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate another provision or to have no 
consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than 
being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes that the 
Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying 
all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims to have made original contributions in the field of architecture and civil 
engineering and submitted a statement outlining his accomplishments in these areas, but the 
Petitioner's statements alone is not sufficient ifnot corroborated by independent evidence. In denying 
the petition, the Director determined that the testimonial evidence did not establish that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner also submits letters 
in support of this assertion. 
Upon review of the record, the authors of the letters and articles submitted with the petition attest to 
the talent of the Petitioner, but do not provide specific examples of how the Petitioner's methods or 
techniques have influenced the work ofother individuals in the field of teaching architecture and civil 
engineering, or otherwise equate to original contributions of major significance in the field. Also, the 
submitted documentation does not include an explanation as to how the Petitioner's choice ofmethods 
differs from that of other professors in the field of architecture and civil engineering. The plain 
language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Petitioner's contributions be "of major 
significance in the field" rather than limited to the person he teaches or mentors or personally 
purchases his art. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
While the Petitioner submits letters of support and articles discussing the Petitioner's work as original 
and inventive, it does not necessarily mean that his work as a professor in architecture and civil 
engineering significantly contributed to the field as a whole. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, F.2 (Appendices); see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a 
6 
ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). Publications alone are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they 
were of major significance. The Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or highly 
ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Even considering the Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion, we still conclude he has not 
shown that his work has resulted in a marked impact within the field. In the end, the Petitioner has 
not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role was for an organization or establishment 
(or a division or department of an organization or establishment) with a distinguished reputation. A 
leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and through the 
role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help establish whether a role is 
or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2)(Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. In addition, this criterion requires that the organization or 
establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. USCIS policy reflects that 
organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence." See generally id. ( citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Director's decision addressed the evidence previously submitted and determined that the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate he performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner does not provide 
additional evidence to overcome the Director's decision and instead, contends throughout his career 
he performed a critical role as a professor teaching the next generation of architects and engineers. He 
also states his most relevant critical role as a professor was the "education of hundreds of architecture 
and civil engineering graduate and postgraduate students at five renowned universities in Brazil." In 
addition, he reiterates his selection as a reviewer for the National Association of Technology in the 
Built Environment (ENTAC) also reflects his position in a leading and critical role for a distinguished 
organization. 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner's brief consists of conclusory statements that do not 
meaningfully discuss the Director's specific reasoning. Instead, the Petitioner points to the same 
evidence already on record and does not specifically address the Director's grounds for denial. For 
these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
7 
B. Reserved Issues 
As previously noted, the Petitioner also asserts that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
and (ix), which relate to authorship of scholarly articles and high remuneration, respectively. Detailed 
discussion of the remaining claimed criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (ix) cannot change the 
outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve these issues and will not address these criteria. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofD­
L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n. l O(BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 4 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9045630 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 10, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a product manager and consultant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director then granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen and reopen the proceeding, and denied the 
petition a second time. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that she "is a highly accomplished and respected consultant in the area of technology 
product development and business strategy." Among other P.Ositions, she served as a lead product 
manager for and as director of product at D At the time of filing, she was a 
product lead at She also started her own consulting business called 
~------~ . Shortly before the filing date, two companies engaged the Petitioner's services as 
an advisor on a part-time, contract basis. I ~ 1 hired the Petitioner to work "from April 
2019 to April 2022 as a Product Manager ... responsible for managing the tech team and designers 
responsible for building a mobile app and maintaining and improving a website" used by workers in "the 
beauty tech industry ... to rent chair space on an hourly basis" at participating salons.I I hired 
the Petitioner to "support and supervise with conceptualizing, designing, managing and productizing 
.____ _ ____.t' 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the fourth criterion, pertaining to participating as a 
judge. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the four other claimed evidentiary criteria, 
1 The chief executive officer of! [ has the same surname as the Petitioner. The record does not say whether 
the two are related, or whether the shared surname is coincidental. 
2 
including the submission of comparable evidence relating to the second criterion (membership in 
associations). We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not show 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. We discuss the criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion through her mentorship work with!.__ _____ __, 
andl I In the alternative, the Petitioner asserts that her work with these organizations should be 
considered comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) because, to her knowledge, "there are no 
associations ... in [her] field (Product Management) that require outstanding achievements of members 
as determined by recognized experts." 
.__ _____ _.I is "aObased accelerator that aims to support innovative IT startups in the healthcare 
sector." Its executive director states: "Mentors become part of our program through either invitation or 
through an application and screening process. [The Petitioner] was invited to join us because of her 
excellent reputation as a technology consultant as well as her strong experience specifically in the health 
care sector." The same official states: "Our selection team is made of the 3 managing partners at 
The executive director ofl !describes that entity as "an accelerator program that supports startups 
froml I and helps them scale globally." He states: "We selectively recruit mentors who are 
leaders in their field and will be able to provide the best guidance for our members. [The Petitioner] was 
asked to join as a mentor because of her expertise and experience as a leading technology consultant." 
He states that the advisory board responsible for selecting mentors "is currently made up of nine members, 
all leading experts in business and finance." He does not identify these individuals but states that their 
profiles appear on the organization's website. 2 
The Petitioner does not submit any documentary evidence from the two accelerators to establish the 
formal requirements for acceptance as a mentor. The fairly general references to rigorous and exclusive 
mentorship selection processes do not show that mentors are chosen by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. The Petitioner has not established that volunteering for 
mentorship programs is comparable to membership in an association as described in the regulation. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
2 The web page that identifies the advisory board members is http://ww~ tmentors.html (last visited July 9, 
2020). That page provides no information about the members except their names and links to other pages with further 
information (usually their Linkedln profiles). This information does not establish that the advisory board consists entirely 
of recognized national or international experts. 
3 
The Petitioner submits a number of materials intended to satisfy this criterion. For the reasons explained 
below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
Al 12019 piece calling the Petitioner ~---------------~' is a press 
release from~ ______ _.. It appeared verbatim on different websites. There is no credited author, 
but the article names a contact person named j I at a public relations and marketing firm. The 
record does not reveal who hired the public relations firm and commissioned the press release. The article 
includes biographic information about the Petitioner and praise for her abilities, but does not promote any 
particular company or product. Given the nature and uncertain origin of this article, the Petitioner has not 
established that it meets the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 
Similarly, a list of 'I I published on Entrepreneur's website 
appeared under the heading 'I . I Spotlight," with no named author and no date. (The 
printout also lacks a web address that might otherwise corroborate the information.) The Petitioner is one 
of the "Top Leaders" mentioned in the article. A legend beneath the "Spotlight" heading reads: "Where 
brands share their insights," indicating that "Spotlight" articles are promotional pieces originating from 
outside the publication's own staff. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established that this article 
meets the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 
Al I 2019 I . I' post on ThriveGlobal calls the Petitioner "one of the lead female figures 
in the field of product management." The author of the article isl I who "currently runs a 
six-figure PR firm." The available evidence indicates that he is the same i I named as the contact 
point in articles credited tol l The ThriveGlobal piece includes a disclaimer that the 
views of "outside contributors ... don't necessarily reflect our own." The Petitioner has not shown that 
this post constitutes qualifying published material. 
A I I 201 7 piece in the Huffington Post named the Petitioner among ' I I' The list is identified as a blog post rather than an article of jou._m_a_li-st-ic-re_p_o_rt_a_g_e_-T_h_.e 
record does not show that the Huffington Post takes responsibility for the content of blog posts as it would 
for news articles. 3 Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that this post is a qualifying article. 
Alley Watch interviewed the Petitioner iO 2017 as part of a series involving~--------~ I I" The Petitioner has not established that Alley Watch qualifies as a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media; the site has a "Category Rank" of 2088 among "Technology 
News" websites. The website's own media kit refers to a "global audience" but also indicates that the 
"organization [is] focused on thd I startup and tech community." Although the regulation calls 
for a named author, the article is credited collectively to Alley Watch, with no indication as to who wrote 
or asked the questions posed to the Petitioner. The Petitioner asserts that the regulation "does not specify 
that such author must be named as an individual," but a collective attribution does not name the author at 
all when the record does not name the individual comprising that collective. The omission is particularly 
significant in the face of the Petitioner's submission of commissioned articles written by public relations 
firms rather than journalists. 
3 We note that the web address provided for the blog post is no longer active. The online archive of posts by the blogger 
in question does not include the submitted post, or any explanation for the post's deletion. 
4 
Another interview published with no named author al'peared on the website of World News inl I 
2018. The article appeared underl 'credited to I I' about whom the record 
provides no further information. 4 The interviewer's questions repeatedly refer to the Petitioner as a leader 
in the field. For example, the interviewer asked: "How have your [sic] grown and have expectations of 
you changed since becoming a leader in the field?" and "You grew up in technology and are recognized 
as a senior leader, how would you define your strengths?" Because other articles with such an emphasis 
trace back to a public relations firm, this effectively anonymous article carries little weight. The Petitioner 
has not shown that this article is qualifying published material. 
There is a named author for an interview with the Petitioner for 100 Product Managers, a podcast "on a 
mission to interview 100 product managers," with transcripts published on an affiliated website. The 
named interviewer from 100 Product Managers does not refer to the Petitioner as a leader in her field, 
and the nature of the questions does not indicate that the interviewer had significant knowledge about the 
Petitioner or her work before the interview. This interviewer mentioned "looking in [the Petitioner's] 
background" to prepare for the interview, whereas the unidentified World News interviewer phrased the 
questions in a manner that presupposed the Petitioner's prominence in her field. 
The Petitioner does not establish that 100 Product Managers qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication or other major media. The website's self-description indicates that, rather than focus on 
"famous" individuals, the publication seeks to "include[] all kinds of voices and a wide range of 
experience." The same page invites readers to "request an interview" if they are "somebody who would 
like to participate in the project."5 
Apart from the interview in 100 Product Managers, which appears to have been predicated only on the 
Petitioner's employment as a project manager and which the Petitioner appears to have initiated through 
the site's open invitation for interview requests, most of the submitted articles appear to originate from a 
public relations firm, published on sites that accept outside contributions. Promotional materials of this 
type do not constitute published material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to her work in the field. In the same way that one cannot establish eligibility 
by awarding oneself a prize or offering oneself a high salary, creating or arranging for media coverage on 
one's own behalf cannot carry the same weight as independent coverage resulting from one's reputation 
in a particular field. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
We will not disturb the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. If this proceeding 
had reached a final merits determination, we would have taken into account the level at which this judging 
took place (such as local events and an event restricted to alumni of one university). 
4 The record does not show whether the initials c=]in the usemame relate tol I or are coincidental. 
5 Had this proceeding reached a final merits dete1mination, this practice of openly soliciting interview subjects, without 
consideration for their recognition in the field, would have unde1mined any conclusion that 100 Product Managers specifically 
approached the Petitioner due to her acclaim in the field. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
The Petitioner was a lead product manager atl I The record establishes I ~s 
distinguished reputation. I h head of broker and bank product management asserts that 
I I is "considered I ~ s most significant strategic step towards embracing 
social media." He states: 
Based on the ieema) metrics gather:d and analysis conducted on this program, it was 
concluded that lhad significant impact and influence of members 
trading and the success members had in pursuing their trading activities. The ... average 
I I members trade 4.1 times more than I I members ... [and] 
generated 2. 7 times more revenue . . . . [I]t is clear the product line did have an important 
impact onl ts success in the market. 
A former corporate treasurer at .... ! ___ _.I states: 
[The Petitioner] essentially was responsible for the strategic development for the 
company's digital products and online branding .... She also helped develop and launch 
technology products in almost every sector within the company's technology suite .... 
Within social media, she led the development and management of a cohesive product suite 
across multiple digital platforms .... 
[The Petitioner's] work undoubtedly directly affected the development and evolution of I ~ technology product offerings and it's [sic] trajectory. Therefore in my mind 
she was also critical to the company's growth from a multi-million dollar company to an 
over $2.4 billion company that now serves over 4 million accounts. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner performed in a critical role forl [ thereby satisfying the 
requirements of this criterion. Because the Petitioner's work atl lsuffices to meet the criterion, 
we need not discuss the less persuasive evidence submitted regarding her roles at other organizations. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner's tax returns show salary income of $102,742 in 2015 and business income ( after expenses) 
of $104,972 in 2016, and $225,779 in 2017. In 2018,I I paid her $99,529 as an employee; pay 
receipts from early 2019 show a rate of $18,333 per month, or $220,000 per year. The Petitioner does 
not identify all the sources of her consulting income, but she documents payments from some individual 
clients in 2017 and 2018; the largest such payment was $211,750 in 2017. Other documented payments 
ranged between $7500 and $33,800. In many instances, the Petitioner has not documented the work she 
performed for these payments, or the amount of time she devoted to each of these clients. 
G 
The regulation requires comparison of the Petitioner's compensation to that of others in the field. The 
comparative evidence is fragmentary and inconsistent. Some former employers assert that the Petitioner 
earned more than others performing similar tasks, but such comparisons are limited. Similarly, private 
survey data relies on non-random self-reporting. In terms of official government figures, the Petitioner 
submits Department of Labor data indicating that the level 4 wage for "Computer Occupations, All Other" 
in thel !metropolitan area was $121,222 per year at the time of filing. This broad category 
includes "Database Architects," "Web Administrators," and "Data Warehousing Specialists." The 
Petitioner did not explain why this category is the best match for product managers. A former~ 
official states that the role of a "Product Director ... is not a software programming role, a function which 
is usually handled by an engineering team, which is directed by the Product Director." This description 
indicates a higher-level, managerial role, in which case it is not correct to compare the Petitioner's 
compensation to that of programmers and engineers. 
The evidence of the Petitioner's remuneration is incomplete, and the Petitioner has not provided a reliable 
basis for comparing her compensation to that of others performing similar work. (The record also does 
not provide sufficient details about the nature of that work.) Therefore, the Petitioner has not satisfied the 
requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. The Petitioner has 
documented some degree of success in her field, but the record does not consistently point to sustained 
national or international acclaim at the top of her field. Of particular concern, there are serious 
questions regarding the origin of published materials referring to her as a leader in her field; she 
appears to have arranged for their publication, as shown by the documented involvement of public 
relations specialists in their publication. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9732760 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 10, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician and music producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or that he meets at 
least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria for this classification . 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets four of the evidentiary criteria and otherwise qualifies 
for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician, music producer and former record company executive who intends to 
continue working as a producer, recording artist, and touring musician in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner claimed, 
but did not meet, the criteria for awards, published material, judging, display in artistic showcases or 
exhibitions, and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (vii), and (viii), 
respectively. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets up to four criteria and that he qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. We have reviewed all the evidence in the record of proceedings, and we find 
that the Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated that he meets at least three criteria. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Director generally stated that the Petitioner submitted: "internet ads" and 
"material posted in web portals or other social media," and "a multitude of online articles," that are 
1 We note that the Petitioner did not claim to meet the criterion related to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards or prizes at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
considered "posting not published material." Out of the dozens of media articles submitted, the 
Director specifically referenced only four of them, two of which were not submitted under this 
criterion. While not every submitted article meets this criterion, the record contains articles about the 
Petitioner and relating to his work which were published by major newspapers including The New 
York Times and Los Angeles Times and industry publications such as Billboard and Rolling Stone. 
With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5}h)(3)(iv), the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted evidence related to thd.__ ___ __, short film competition, but found insufficient 
documentation to establish that he actually participated as a judge in the event, that he judged the work 
of others in his field, or that his judging activities were at a level "consistent with sustained national 
or international acclaim." However, the evidence submitted clearly establishes the Petitioner's 
~ipation on a three-person panel of jurors in the 1 I' category at the 2008 I I 
L_J festival. This evidence confirms that the jurors were responsible for selecting a category winner, 
and that short films submitted in the.__ ____ __,' category are music videos and therefore within 
the Petitioner's field of expertise. The Petitioner does not need to establish that his judging activities 
are a level "consistent with national or international acclaim" in order to satisfy the plain language of 
this criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the criterion relating to the display of his 
work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) based on a finding that the 
criterion is intended for visual artists, not performing artists. We disagree with the Director's 
interpretation that the plain language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual 
artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's own work product 
and that the venues at which the individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii).2 As certain exhibitions or showcases featuring performing artists meet 
the plain language of this regulation, the Director should not have summarily disregarded the 
Petitioner's evidence. Here, for example, the Petitioner provided evidence that he and his bands have 
performed for audiences at many music festivals. Accordingly, we conclude that the submitted 
evidence satisfies the plain language of this criterion. 
As the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he has satisfied 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. We will evaluate the totality of the evidence, 
including the documentation relating to the other criterion he has claimed, in the context of the final 
merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, making him one of 
the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Ce1iain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. (stating that 
officers should use the common dictionary definitions of ·'exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
3 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed below, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner began his career in the music industry as a teenager, when he 
worked as a radii disc jockey before joining! I as a radio promoter right after leaving 
high school. At he advanced to the positions of label manager, o:euera) manager and head of 
artists and repertoire (A&R) and later, from 2008 until 2011, served asl ~s chairman. A 
2006 profile of the Petitioner published by the Los Angeles Times noted that, "[the Petitioner] at 30, is 
the first of his generation in Mexico to assume control of a major record label" and "part of a small 
but growing group of people who are coming into power in Mexico with new ways to look at the 
market and the music." The article goes on to note that "[ d]uring his tenure, the label leaped from 
fifth to second place in the market" in large part due to the success of artists that the Petitioner signed 
and helped to develop. The Petitioner also provided evidence that Billboard magazine, a major trade 
publication in the music industry, consistently reported on his career atl I 
He achieved an early milestone in his career when he served as the musical coordinator forl.__ __ ~ I Is award-winning film The Petitioner's work on this ro·ect earned him 
a Grammy award nomination for 
at the~---~ Grammy Awards in 2002. '--------------
While he was still working as an executive atD the Petitioner also began recording and performing 
under the pseudonym .__ _________ _.in 2005. This Mexican music 
industry" is discussed in the above-referenced Los Angeles Times art;::;i.::.cl!..::e:.....!:::=========::z=.... 
and in a 2009 rofile ublished by The New York Times..,__ __________ __. 
'--------~------~--· The latter article, which previewed the Petitioner's 
~rmance at the Music & Arts Festival, notes that he remained the chairman of 
l_Jwhile carving out with "a "quirky but .-----'========================----____._---"----, 
infectious blend of.__ _______ ~-----------~-------------' 
sounds." The article identifies.__.,----,--..,.........as "one of America's premier music events, drawing around 
150,000 people," and mentions that it is known for "packing its lineups with a few historic reunions" 
and "buzzy bands I 1-" 
As.__ __________ the Petitioner has released five albums between 2006 and 2017, and 
the record reflects that he has consistently received significant media coverage and critical acclaim. 
In its review of the Petitioner's second album, I I the BBC noted that he was "already receiving 
acclaim on the other side of the Atlantic, with the New York Times and Rolling Stone Mexico both 
recognjzjlg the importance of this album I I' In addition to I ~ the Petitioner has toured extensively in Nr a:d Smub Ajerica performinfi at acclaimed 
festivals and venues such asl 11 I~--~~-----~ andl _Folk Festival, 
and has received similar critical acclaim for his live performances from the Los Angeles Times and 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
4 
other ma·or market media. He was also invited to create official remixes for artists such as B 
,----,.....-,.... ___ ......,...__,_,_.c..,anLJ had his songs featured in advertising campaigns for major brands 
.___----.-_...__......,_""'in~m=,any acclaimed television shows and films includin HBO's.--1 -===.I 
Showtime's,___--.----r---'ABC's I I and New Line Cinemas' and video 
games (EA Sports series and Rockstar Games .__ ______ ___. 
For I !which the record reflects is among the best-selling video games of all time, 
he was one of 15 artists invited to curate and host an in-game radio station. In 2013, Rolling Stone 
published an interview with the ame's soundtrack su ervisor, who ex lains that the ame sou ht to 
~the 
L__J He mentions that the Petitioner, based on his work a"L_ ______ ,-----,,-----1was chosen 
to curate the Latin station! l which includes the Petitioner's song ~-..... " Other station 
hosts included well known musicians, actors, and DJs. 
More recentll the Pritioner was hired byl ] to serve as the musical consultant for its 
201 7 release which has earned box office receipts of over $800 million. The Petitioner 
submitted articles from Rolling Stone Mexico and other sources which report on his addition to0' s 
musical staff for the film, noting that he was brought on "to capture the authentic flavor of Mexico's 
music." Several other articles mention the importance of music in the film and the Petitioner's 
involvement in achieving the desired authrtic reresentation of Mexican music. The record reflects 
that thel I song is on I I official soundtrack and an animated 
version of the Petitioner appears in the movie in the scene that features his song. 
In addition to his success and high-profile projects a...----,_ _____ __J the Petitioner has 
received international recognition for his 2016 albu a collaborative project with fellow 
Mexican musician and produce~ ~, and · , which he founded in 2015, 
collaborating withl I o~ I and.__ _____ _. The record reflects that the 
recording of I I which took place in seven cities with many prominent guest artists, was 
featured in Los Angeles Times, the Chicago Tribune, Rolling Stone, Billboard and many Mexican 
Ii ions and was the subject of al I documentary series. An article about 
L__,--___._-=f-=-ea=t=u""-re=-,d_ on the website of artist ri hts or anization BMI (bmi.com) refers to the Petitioner 
and as ' " notin that the 1 I 
.__ ________ _.' The Petitioner'..__ __ ___.tour played at th""L_ __ ...r-usic Festival and in 
international locations in 2015. 
In addition,! ~ album, I [ was featured as the number two album on Rolling 
Stone's "10 Best I I of 2016" and the record reflects that the Petitioner garnered 
international media recognition and critical praise for both the album and the band's tours of the United 
States, the United Kingdom and Australia. An exclusive premiere of a video for th~ !single 
ublished b U.K. news a er The Guardian (theguardian.com) refers to the 
band as L--,r-------,f-----1 1--------------'' and Billboard published an article 
..__ ___ __.;::.s-=2:....:0:....:1:....:5-====.' tour and featured an exclusive premiere of its album. Additional 
interviews and press for I • I's album and live performances appeared in the Los Angeles Times, 
Rolling Stone, NPR Music, The Sydney Morning Herald, The Economist, The Village Voice, the New 
Yorker, and Univision. 
5 
In 2019, the Petitioner roduced the album I I for Grammy-winning Mexican American artist 
I I and for Latin 1rammy1winning bandl I whose tracks 
include collaborations wit ~---~and Both albums were featured in articles by Rolling 
Stone and NPR which mention the Petitioner's production role and his other projects. The Petitioner 
has also detailed his upcoming plans to perform in a traveling music show based onl Ito curate 
and provide music for the Netflix serie~ I to record a new.__ _________ _.album 
and tour the United States, and to produce and remix music for other acclaimed artists. 
Based on the evidence of the Petitioner's achievements and earned recognition discussed above, the 
Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability as a musician and producer and established that 
he is regarded as having a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). The totality of the evidence establishes that he possesses a level of expertise that is 
consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor 
and that he has documented sustained acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that he will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9387310 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 11, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher in the field of mechanical engineering, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements to demonstrate that he is an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a mechanical engineer, specializing in the design of 
.,.I -----1[ He received a master of science degree in mechanical engineering from the University 
~I ---~I in 2006, and intends to continue working in this field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and his service as a 
judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to scientific contributions of major significance to the field. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet at least three of the criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has reviewed articles submitted to several journals 
published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), including Journal of Fluids 
Engineering, Journal of Energy Resource Technology, and Journal of Mechanical Design. He also 
submitted evidence which shows that he is one of more than 40 associate editors for the International 
Journal of Engines. We therefore agree that the evidence establishes that the Petitioner meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
2 
In his decision, the Director found that neither the evidence of the Petitioner's published research 
about the use of I I in aeronautical applications, nor his patents for the design of 
industrial I I demonstrated that he had made original contributions to the field as required 
under this criterion. Upon review, we disagree, as the review process for both scholarly articles and 
patent applications is intended to ensure that only original research is published and original 
innovations receive patent protection. We will therefore turn to whether these original contributions 
are of major significance to the field of mechanical engineering. 
The evidence concerning the Petitioner's contributions to the field of mechanical engineering can be 
divided into two groups: that concerning the research he conducted as a graduate student, and his 
work with his employer at the time of filing. As noted above, his graduate research, the results of 
which was reported through the publication of scholarly articles, focused on the use o~ I 
I Ito address the problem of flow separation in low pressure turbine blades, as well as their use 
as ~ f tool for aircraft. The Petitioner submitted several reference letters describing this research 
and its impact on the field, which will be discussed below. 1 
The first reference letter in the record was written by.__ _____ ~---~ o"'"f .... l ______ ~ 
University, who collaborated with the Petitioner while teaching at the University I I. He 
describes this research, and states that it led to the publication of two "particularly successful articles" 
on the use o~ I improve the aerodynamic qualities of aircraft, which have been cited 
by other researchers in their own published work. He notes that two groups in particular built upon 
this research, concluding that he "has therefore played a critical role in supporting his peers and 
ensuring that the field of mechanical and aerospace engineering advances." However~] ______ ~ 
does not indicate that this work represented an advancement which remarkably influenced the field or 
was widely implemented. 
I I adds that this research led to a grant from NASA. He expands µnon this in a secon4 
letter, stating that the Petitioner's "excellent research on turbine blade ~L _______ ~J 
demonstrated a "technique that increased their operational efficiency" and was essential to "our 
research team's receipt of major fonding." But he does not demonstrate how the Petitioner's impact 
upon his own research group's fonding was a contribution of major significance to the overall field of 
mechanical engineering. 
Another reference letter was submitted by.__ _______ ____,ofl I University (United 
Kingdom), who indicates that the Petitioner's work is "relevant to my own research." He writes that 
on three occasions, he used experimental data from the Petitioner's published work to validate the 
accuracy of models he developed. I I concludes that this data "has proven to be both 
extremely accurate and highly relevant to the creation of improved models and for the design of better 
I I-" Similarly,,__ _________ __. ofl [Jniversity (Canada) notes 
that other researchers have also used data from the Petitioner's experiments to validate the accuracy 
of their models, and he indicates that he "referenced [ the Petitioner's] work because of its outstanding 
quality and direct relevance to my own work." While these letters demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
work allowed others to produce better models o .__ ______________ __. thereby 
1 We have thoroughly reviewed all of the reference letters in the record, including those not specifically mentioned in this 
decision. 
3 
adding to the knowledge base and further development in this field, they do not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's contribution to his field in this manner was of major significance. We note that copies of 
some of the articles which cite to the Petitioner's work which were included in the record confirm the 
use of his experimental data as described in these letters, but they do not otherwise provide information 
to support the Petitioner's claim under this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also refers to evidence from the Microsoft Academic database which he 
asserts indicate that he is among the top 3% most cited researchers in his field. We first note that the 
Petitioner initially included this evidence with his RFE response, noting that this figure "is indicative 
of his standing as one of the small percentage of researchers who have risen to the top of his field ... " 
The Petitioner does not explain how the analysis of this data under the final merits standard of review 
establishes that he has made a contribution of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). In 
addition, the search terms used by the Petitioner include only I t and "electronic 
engineering," and the search was limited to the years from 2005 to 2019. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that these search criteria would accurately capture all published work relating to the 
contribution described above, particularly in light of the fact that his field is mechanical engineering, 
and that he focused on aeronautical applications in his work. Accordingly, this data does not support 
the assertion that the number of citations to the Petitioner's published work demonstrates that he has 
made a contribution of major significance in the field of mechanical engineering. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to his work in industry, where he has focused 
on the design of.__ _______ __. specifically those used in the oil and gas industry. The 
evidence indicates that he is listed as an inventor on three patents, granted in 2016, 2017 and 2018, all 
of which conce~ I and I I components and were assigned to his employer. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the commercialization and sale o~ ~ based on those patents 
reflects the major significance of these original contributions to his field, and refers to previously 
submitted reference letters in support of this assertion. 
One of those letters was written byl I who indicates that he has worked with the 
Petitioner for several years, including with a previous employer. I I indicates that the 
Petitioner served as the engineering lead for two projects, adding structural components to al I 
I I to reduce vibration levels and improve reliability, and designing a newc=J I I and highe~._ ___ _.~ to an air-cooled reciprocating I I which resulted in a 
reduction in production cost of more than $10,000. He notes the three patents that resulted from this 
work, and that the I I are sold internationally. 
Another letter regarding this aspect of the Petitioner's work comes from I I who 
serves as the Director of Product Management in high speed '-----;,:=======;.-----' for the 
Petitioner's employer. He rovides further detail regarding the I I designed by the 
Petitioner, indicating that the_ I "is one of a kind and has created increased 
interest in the industry." Regarding the air-cooled cylinders, I I states that the Petitioner "was 
essential to the design and development of these products," and that his work "resulted in a cost­
effective product that has unique features and is commercially sold around the world in large 
numbers." 
4 
Additional letters from managers and executives with the Petitioner's current employer verify his role 
in the design of the above-mentioned! I These also include an employment letter verifying 
his role as a lead engineer, in which he "is responsible for developing new products and technical 
specifications contributing to the projects from inception to launch." Taken together, these letters 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has led the design of I I for his employer, including the 
addition of new design features, thereby successfully fulfilling his duties as a lead engineer. However, 
they do not demonstrate that this work has remarkably impacted or influenced the field of mechanical 
engineering. We note that the Petitioner also included several purchase orders for the models of I lfor which he led the development, asserting that this evidence demonstrates "the practical 
and commercial impact [the Petitioner's] work made to the field." Although this evidence confirms 
that these products are sold to customers in several countries, it does not show that the impact of the 
Petitioner's contributions extend beyond his own employer, who is able to reap the financial benefits 
of his work. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence which shows that he has co-authored four papers which have been 
published in the proceedings of scientific conferences. As such, we agree with the Director that he 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9809356 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 11, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 1 
1 The Petitioner did not include the required "statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has 
been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding ." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In dismissing the appeal, we determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the initial evidentiary 
criteria. In the Petitioner's motion to reconsider, he argues that he submitted evidence showing that 
he satisfied the following four criteria: lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). In his motion to reopen, 
the Petitioner presents additional documentation relating to the judging criterion. For the reasons 
discussed below, the Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not establish that we erred in our prior 
decision. Further, the new evidence submitted in support of the motion to reopen does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner contends that he meets four criteria. He does not, however, specifically argue that our 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Disagreeing with our conclusions 
without establishing that we erred as a matter oflaw or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis 
of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 
(BIA 2006) ( finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit, in 
essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). We 
will address the Petitioner's submission of new evidence under the motion to reopen section. 
In reference to the awards criterion, in our prior decision we determined that the record reflects that 
the Petitioner received several martial arts awards, including first lace in the at the 
2013 World Association of Kickboxing Or anizations (W AKO) Cup, second place at 
the 2014 World Kickboxing Federation secon ace at t e 20161 I 
I I Muaythai Championship, first place in the at the ~----.====. 
I IMuay Thai, I I, and first place in the.___ ______ ____. at the ._I-...,......,...,---,---, 
Cup of Kickboxing. However, we concluded that the evidence submitted is insufficient to establish 
that any of these are awards are nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the 
Petitioner's field. Specifically, although the Petitioner submitted documentation, including from the 
WAKO General Rules and the World Kickboxing Federation Official Amateur Rulebook, that 
provides general criteria for the awards he received, such as how points are awarded and how team 
wins are determined, it does not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards 
won. 2 On motion, the Petitioner acknowledges that he is "not enclosing any new evidence in support 
of this criterion" but argues that he "presented extensive evidence" in support of this criterion, 
including a "detailed description of the awards, their significance and the awarding organization." The 
Petitioner, however, does not cite to any legal precedent decisions or other authority establishing an 
error on our part in our previous determination regarding this criterion. 
Regarding the published material criterion, in our prior decision, we concluded that the articles l I I t and i I do not reflect published 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting relevant considerations in determining if the 
award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international significance in the field.) 
2 
material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other major media, which 
include the title, date, and author. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.2.fhlQl(iii). 3 Instead, the first article focused 
on the recent success ofrepresentatives of the Fight ClulL__J only briefly mentioned the Petitioner, 
and did not include the author, while the second article summarized all of the fights taking place during 
the amateur I I competition, of which one involved the Petitioner. We also determined that 
while the Petitioner provided online circulation statistics for the websites on which those articles 
appeared, he did not establish that these sites are major media or professional or major trade 
publications. 
We further concluded that although the Petitioner provided additional articles that are about him 
related to his work from Simya i Dim, Ljubart Chronicles, Martial Arts. Keys to Excellence, 
volyn.tabloyid.com, and www.volynpost.com, and included print or online circulation statistics for 
each of those publications, the Petitioner did not submit comparative evidence establishing that these 
statistics are high relative to other circulation statistics, or otherwise show that the newspapers or 
websites are professional or major trade publications. 4 In addition, except for the Simya i Dim article, 
all those articles did not include the name of the author, as required. On motion, the Petitioner states 
"I request that AAO reconsider its decision regarding this criterion." However, as indicated 
previously, disagreeing with our conclusions without establishing that we erred as a matter of law or 
policy or pointing to precedent decisions that contradict our analysis of the evidence is not a ground 
to reconsider our decision. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that our appellate decision was 
incorrect. We conducted a de novo review of the record on appeal, thoroughly analyzed the evidence, 
and ultimately concluded that the Petitioner did not satisfy at least three regulatory criteria. Here, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred or misapplied law or policy. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
meet the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
In reference to the judging criterion, we noted that the Petitioner claims eligibility through his 
participation as "a professional referee in Muay Thai" at regional, national, and international 
championships. In support, the Petitioner provided a copy of his credentials for the 2016 I I 
World Muay Thai Championship, photographs of himself at that championship, a letter from I I 
'---------------------------' t the World Muay Federation (WMF), 
a certificate from the WMF identifying him as an "International Referee & Judge C Class" and 
confirming his completion of the "Referees and Judges Course" during the aforementioned 
championship, and his work schedules as a referee for the 2015 
WKPA." 5 We determined that the evidence supports the Petitioner's assertion that he has served as 
a professional referee at numerous martial arts events. Specifically, the WMF certificate establishes 
his qualifications as such and confirms that he completed the "referees and judges course" during the 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 7 (instructing that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the individual should establish that the 
circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the 
publication). 
5 We noted that the Petitioner did not provide the full name of this organization. 
3 
20161 lworld Muay Thai Championship, his credentials for this event clearly identify him 
as a coach and referee for that event, the photographs are sufficient to demonstrate that he participated 
in that role,I rs letter, provided by the Petitioner as evidence of his qualification as a referee, 
confirms that she saw him act in this role, 6 and his work schedules for the 2015 Kickboxing I I confirm that he worked as a referee for numerous fights during that event. 
We farther concluded that the Petitioner did not provide a description of his duties as a referee to 
demonstrate whether they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed 
to enforcing the rules of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. In addition, we determined 
the record lacks other evidence, such as official competition rules for either event, showing that serving 
as a referee in those instances equates to participating as a 'judge" of the work of others. 7 Without 
farther documentation, such as evidence that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing 
the ultimate winner at those events, the evidence regarding serving as a referee at martial arts events 
is insufficient to meet this criterion. 8 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that "I served as a judge and not as a referee." He submits a screenshot 
from www.muaythai.sport/muaythai-rules/ that includes an excerpt of the Rules and Regulations of the 
International Federation of Muaythai Associations, the governing body of the sport, which provides as 
follows: 
10. Referees & Judges 
10.1 Referee: In the World Championships, World Cup, Continental Championships, 
continental Cup and other International tournaments each contest shall be controlled by 
an IFMA or Continental approved referee who shall officiate in the ring but shall not mark 
a sconng paper. 
10.2 Judges: Each contest shall be marked by either five or three IFMA Judges who shall 
be seated separately from the public and immediately adjacent to the ring. 
Here, the documentation submitted on motion does not detail what duties the Petitioner performed as 
a referee in the aforementioned competitions. For example, the Petitioner did not submit official 
competition rules showing that his activities in those competitions constituted participation as a judge 
of the work of others. As discussed in our appellate decision, if the petitioner's duties involved simply 
enforcing the rules of a match and sportsmanlike competition, then his participation as a judge cannot 
be said to have involved evaluating or judging the skills or qualifications of the participants. Without 
farther evidence that he judged the work of others, such as evidence that he awarded points or 
6 We noted that whild I indicates that she was "pleased to see [ the Petitioner] as an International Judge and Referee 
at this event" this is discrepant with the Petitioner's own representation of his role at this event in the initial petition. 
Moreover, as noted in the brief accompanying the initial petition, the Petitioner provided this letter to demonstrate his 
ceitification as a referee. 
7 Our prior decision noted that while the Petitioner provided a document titled "World Muay Federation" it does not 
describe the duties ofreferees and judges participating in World Muay Federation sanctioned events. 
8 Our appellate decision noted that the record includes a copy of the "Official Amateur Rulebook" from the World 
Kickboxing Federation, which indicates that judges are responsible for scoring matches and referees mainly serve to 
enforce rules (sections 2.1.14 and 2.1.15.) The record does not include similar evidence regarding the WMF or the WKPA, 
the associations for which the evidence establishes that the Petitioner served as a referee. 
4 
exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, evidence regarding officiating at a match is 
insufficient to meet this criterion. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not overcome our findings 
regarding the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
For the reasons discussed above, the new documentation submitted on motion does not overcome our 
original decision, concluding that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The assertions made by the Petitioner on motion do not establish that our previous decision was 
grounded in an incorrect application of law or policy. In addition, the new evidence submitted on 
motion does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision or demonstrate his eligibility 
for this classification. 
Although on motion the Petitioner maintains that he meets the requirements of one additional criterion, 
relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 9 In addition, because the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need not 
conduct a final merits determination to consider whether he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field. 10 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
1 o See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9968165 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 12, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an assistant professor of chemistry, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as an assistant professor of chemistry at the University I I ~-----~11 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, she 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets two additional criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims she meets this criterion based upon her membership in the American Chemical 
Society (ACS). 2 In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 3 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner accepted a job offer for the position of assistant professor of chemistry and 
biochemistry atl I University! lin April 2019, shortly after the petition was filed. See the Petitioner's 
curriculum vitae submitted at initial filing and job offer letter submitted within her response to the Director's request for 
evidence. 
2 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility for this criterion based on her membership with other associations; however, 
she does not argue on appeal, nor does the record reflect, her eligibility based on those associations. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
2 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in the ACS and the ACS Governing Documents 
dated January 1, 2019. First, the documentation submitted does not establish that recognized national 
or international experts judge the outstanding achievements for membership with ACS.4 In addition, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the ACS membership requirements rise to the level of "outstanding 
achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, based on the presented 
documentation, ACS membership is open to those with only an earned associate or higher degree in a 
chemical science or related field of technology or relevant experience, which the Petitioner did not 
show is tantamount to an outstanding achievement. 5 Although the Petitioner asserts that membership 
in the ACS is "restricted to those who have 'conducted and published a meritorious original 
investigation in pharmacology,"' the language cited by the Petitioner does not appear in the submitted 
ACS Governing Documents, and she does not explain how having conducted and published 
"meritorious" original research is tantamount to an outstanding achievement. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she has performed in a leading or critical role as I 1at the national 
2018 ACS Biennial Conference on Chemical Education (ACS BCCE). The Director concluded that 
the Petitioner did demonstrate her eligibility under this criterion, finding that the evidence did not 
show that she has served in a leading or critical role for an organization, "as opposed to mere 
departments, conferences, or various projects" within the organization. 
A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading.6 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not 
the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role 
is or was critical.7 In addition, this criterion requires that the organizations or establishments must be 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. 8 For the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted documentary 
evidence that sufficiently shows that she meets the regulatory requirements of this criterion. 
First, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner has not shown that the ACS BCCE constitutes an 
organization or establishment. According to the documentation submitted, the ACS BCCE is a 
conference organized by ACS's Biennial Conference Committee within the organization's Division 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that the level of membership afforded to the alien 
must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought). 
5 Id. (instructing that relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that the alien's memberships in the associations were 
not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where the alien's membership 
was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in a particular field). 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
7 Id. 
8 Id at 10-11. 
3 
of Chemical Education. While ACS may constitute an organization under this criterion, the Petitioner 
has not shown that a conference by a committee in a division within an organization, which has an 
unspecified number of divisions, committees, and other components, also constitutes an organization 
under this criterion. 
Next, the Petitioner asserts that her role as_.....,..._----,,----,-----=--~ was "the main component of the 
organization's performances" because "[e]ducational conferences are the only business of the 
organization." The Petitioner's claim, however, is not supported by the aforementioned ACS 
Governing Documents submitted by her, which indicate that in addition to educational conferences 
the organization's activities include producing a number of peer-reviewed scientific journals and the 
Chemical Abstracts Service, a provider of chemical databases worldwide. Even if she had shown that 
educational conferences are the only business of ACS, the Petitioner has not demonstrated thatD I I at the ACS BCCE she played a leading or critical role for the organization as a whole. 
The Petitioner presented a letter of support from~---------- an organizer of the 2018 
ACS BCCE. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the letter "is clear in defining the way the 
Petitioner's role was considered leading, and specific duties and importance to the organization as a 
whole.",___ _____ ____, letter asserted that ACS BCCE conferenccl I are "the principal 
actors in an organized event targeted towards Chemistry Education professionals. Their role is vital 
as they are the ones that are sharing their innovations and experiences with others to help grow the 
field. Their participation is essential to the success of the entire endeavor." The letter did not contain, 
however, detailed and probative information that specifically addressed how the Petitioner's role was 
leading or critical for ACS. For instance, the letter did not explain how the Petitioner's conference 
I I role was leading among the organization's staff such as its employees, officers, council, and 
board of directors, nor did the statement indicate that the Petitioner's conference position was of 
significant importance for ACS's success or standing in the industry so as to demonstrate a critical 
role. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
4 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts and authored scholarly articles the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8771264 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 12, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a writer and author, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a "literary non-fiction writer and business/commercial writer." 
Because the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to seven of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) but established that the Petitioner fulfilled only two criteria, relating 
to membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For the reasons discussed later, we do not concur with the Director's decision 
relating to the membership and published material criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets two additional criteria.1 After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in assoc1at1ons in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that she satisfies this criterion based on membership with The Federation of 
Hong Kong Writers (TFHKW). In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.2 The Director 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), leading or critical roles criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but did not satisfy these criteria. The Petitioner does not contest 
these issues on appeal and therefore we deem them to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
{BIA 2009). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual {AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
2 
determined that that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the 
followin reviousl submitted evidence establishes that she meets this criterion:,ill..fill..!J,ndated letter 
from.____ __ ___,.. _______ ............,HKW; (2) a March 2019 letter froml__J(3) a March 
2019 letter from.__ __ .---____ ____., TFHKW· and 4 a 2019 Chinese Ian ua e article from 
an unidentified source b ~--~ titled ' '-------------------~ Reviewed in its totality, the evidence does not demonstrate that membership 
in TFHKW requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the Petitioner's field or discipline. Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), we will withdraw the findings 
of the Director for this criterion. 
Regarding the letters froml I in her undated letter she confirms the Petitioner has been a member 
of TFH KW since I I 2013 and asserts that the federation is "an exclusive association for 
established writers who have already published two books and gained outstanding achievements in 
the field of literature." In her letter dated March 2019j I provides "the minimum requirement to 
be considered by the committee for admission into the organization is to be referred by two existing 
members, have articles published frequently and regularly in major literary newspapers or magazines, 
have published books and are recognized widely for the quality of publications and talent in writing." 
She indicates that when those minimum requirements are met, "the committee extensively reviews the 
applicant's writing, body of work, and their influence and impact on the literary landscape of Hong 
Kong and China, at large." Finally, she claims that the association "accepted [the Petitioner's] 
application due to her achievement in winning the championship of.__ _____ ~ Literary 
Awards, her publications in major literary magazines and newspapers and the quality of the books she 
wrote." She further provides that "the committee members unanimously recognized that [the 
Petitioner] had already had significant original contribution to the literary landscape in Hong Kong." 
L-----------r~f_T~F~H~K~W~=n-=-ihief editor ofl I magazine, indicates 
that as a judge of the 2012 Literary Awards he met the Petitioner, read her award-
wining article.__ __________ _." and "referred" her to become a member of TFHKW 
in 2013. He asserts that TFHKW is "composed of writers who already demonstrated significant 
contribution to the literary landscape in Hong Kong" and its vetting process is "extremely selective." 
He indicates that for admission to TFHKW "writers must be referred by a minimum of two existing 
members ... must have published regularly and frequently in major publications and must have 
published a literary book." In addition, the vetting committee must unanimously agree "on the 
applicant's prominence in the Hong Kong literary scene, the significance of the contribution they made 
as a writer, and the strength of their writing abilities." He indicates that some past members of the 
association are author! land journalist I I He provides that "[t]he fact that [the 
petitioner] was admitted, at such a young age ... demonstrate[s] that she is a prodigy who has already 
changed the literary landscape of Hong Kong .... " He refers to several of the Petitioner's articles 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
published in the magazines Hong Kong Writers, Mengya, and One between 2015 and 2016, after the 
date when the Petitioner became a member of TFH KW. 3 
The Petitioner also provided an article dated 2019 written by I I from an unidentified Chinese­
language webpage, in whichl I indicates that she participated in seminars and lectures organized 
by members of TFHKW, met the Petitioner, and "found out that in order to be accepted into [TFHKW], 
the applicant not only need[s] to be referred by at least two existing members but also need[s] to have 
tremendous writing talents, personal achievements and contribution to the literary scene to be 
recognized and approved by the Executive Committee." I ~s article, however, does not explain 
how she knows of the membership requirements for the association. 
Upon review, the letters froml ~ndl Ida not establish that to become a member of TFHKW 
"recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields" must judge the Petitioner's 
"outstanding achievements," as required under the plain language of the criterion.4 The letters do not 
provide information as to who evaluated the Petitioner's qualifications before selecting her as a 
member or whether the individual(s) who evaluated her qualifications are "national or international 
experts in their disciplines or fields." The Petitioner must document that she meets each element in 
the plain language of the criterion. The Petitioner must, therefore, provide some documentation from 
the federation relevant to the nature of who is responsible for making the appointments. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the requirement that prospective members provide 
evidence of having "published regularly and frequently in major publications and must have published 
a literary book" is tantamount to imposing an "outstanding achievement" requirement for membership. 
In addition, while the letters from TFHKW indicate that the association considers in the membership 
process the applicant's "influence and impact on the literary landscape of Hong Kong and China, at 
large" or "prominence in the Hong Kong literary scene, the significance of the contribution they made 
as a writer, and the strength of their writing abilities," these statements are not adequately supported 
by objective evidence of how these factors are considered or weighed. The record does not establish 
the process by which prospective members are evaluated, nor does it demonstrate that TFHKW 
imposes additional qualitative criteria that amount to an "outstanding achievements" requirement, as 
asserted byl I 
Moreover, we note that the letters from I I and D differ as to the selection criteria, and the 
record lacks evidence that corroborates the actual selection requirements for membership in the 
TFHKW. The record does not contain the federation's constitution or bylaws that discuss membership 
requirements and the qualifications of member~lication reviewers. The Petitioner has not 
shown that the selection requirements I landL__J listed in their letters came from any official 
documents, such as the society's constitution or bylaws. 
3 The record indicates that prior to the date when the Petitioner became a member of TFHKW two of her articles, ·c=J I I and I I were published, respectively, in Mengya magazine 
supplement (2012) and Meiwen magazine (2013). In addition, the record reflects that in 2012 her bookl I I I was published, describing her experiences ire=Jduring her junior year abroad while an undergraduate student 
at The Chinese University! I 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6-7. 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying material 
and explaining his determination. In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
published material about her in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well 
as the title, date, and author of the material. 5 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we will withdraw the findings 
of the Director for this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she is eligible for this criterion based on six online articles 
about her and relating to her work, and evidence relating to www.qq.com, www.ifeng.com, 
www.163.com, and www.sina.com.cn. However, the record does not establish that the media in which 
these articles were published can be considered either professional or major trade publications or 
another type of major media. For example, the Petitioner submitted country ranking and/or website 
traffic regarding www.ifeng.com, www.qq.com, www.163.com, and www.sina.cn, internet portals 
which are popular in China. However, the aforementioned articles were posted on specific webpages 
within those portals, such as js.qq.com, js.news.163.com, news.dichan.sina.com.cn, 
canews.ifeng.com, the Franklin Reading Club webpage (mp.weixin.qq.com), and the Hong Kong 
Writers Magazine blog (blog.sina.com.cn), about which information was not provided. Here, the 
record does not include information regarding the specific media on which these articles were 
published, and they are therefore not qualifying under this criterion. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate the author of the article published on news.dichan.sina.com.cn. The inclusion of the 
author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion, and 
we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of a one-time achievement. In addition, 
we find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to memberships in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements and published materials about her and her work in the field. Although she 
submits evidence for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to original contributions of major 
significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need 
not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.6 Accordingly, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has experience as a writer and author, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8966955 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 12, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the field of business, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
prize or award) or met at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets six of those evidentiary criteria and has sustained 
national or international acclaim. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
11. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur in the field of business, who co-founded a business in his native 
country offering I I testing ~ services and distributing related equipment, holding 
the position of technical director at the time of filing. He holds a diploma as an engineer in "Physical 
and chemical methods of processes and materials" from ~------~University in I I Russia, and received a diploma of professional retraining in management in 2015. The 
record includes evidence that he has established a business in Texas which he intends to grow if 
granted permanent resident status. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C. F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he also meets five additional evidentiary criteria, which are analyzed in detail 
below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet the requisite 
three evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise eligible for the requested benefit. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In his decision, the Director found that while the evidence established that the Petitioner is a member 
of I I, it did not , u u < > 
establish that this organization requires outstanding achievements of its members. This conclusion 
was based upon an analysis of the translated portions of the I l·s charter, and upon review we 
agree with the Director's finding regarding this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner requests that we 
"accept[s] the evidence existing on record to further support [the Petitioner's] national reputation as 
2 
an expert in the field of~----~ Testing." Since the Petitioner did not directly address this 
criterion, we will consider his claim to this criterion abandoned.1 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence pertaining to an interview of him that he 
asserts was aired on the television channel "Russia 24." He also submitted evidence he claims 
demonstrates that Russian-language magazines National Business and Ecology, Production and 
Business of the XXI Century published articles about him. As discussed below, we find that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
With respect to the television interview, the Petitioner submitted an "air participation certificate" from 
the deputy director of I I which indicates that the interview aired on the program I I I I with the topic of "science in small business." The Director found that this description of the 
topic showed that the program was not about the Petitioner, but about science in small business and 
"the current state of small and medium-sized businesses" in the~region. However, in reviewing 
the interview, we note that the interviewer identifies the Petitioner and his company, and asks about 
his experiences and opinions as a small business owner in the technical sector. The Petitioner 
describes his company and its services, but also relays information about his experience as an 
entrepreneur. Accordingly, we disagree with the Director and find that the interview is about the 
Petitioner and his work as an entrepreneur. 
The Director also found that the evidence from Wikipedia about the channel "Russia 240" and 
Russian television channels in general was insufficient to establish that it qualifies as major media, as 
material from this online encyclopedia carries no assurance of reliability. We further note that the list 
of Russian television channels obtained from Wikipedia is incomplete, as indicated by the gap in page 
numbering. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence from the website of ·j I' 
information about the "State Internet Channel Russia," and a copy of regulations concerning mass 
communications in Russia. However, where, as here, a petitioner has been put on notice of a 
deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 
(BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). In addition, even if we were to 
consider this evidence, it does not support a finding that "I I' or the "Russia 24-c=] channel 
on which it appeared qualify as major media. While it is one of several state-owned television channels 
in Russia, the fact of government ownership does not establish its qualification as major media. The 
evidence does not show that in comparison to both state and privately owned television channels in 
1 See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 
2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D. N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed 
to raise them on appeal to the AAO). While we would consider this evidence in a final merits determination per Kazarian, 
596 F.3d 1115, we have determined that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirements and will therefore 
not reach a final merits determination. 
3 
Russia, "Russia 240' is highly rated or viewed, or that the program on which the Petitioner 
appeared receives relatively high viewership ratings. 
In addition, the certificate froml I includes discrepancies with other evidence in the record 
concerning its "publication" or broadcast. Specifically, the Petitioner included a letter from his 
brother, who is the general director ofl I, the company they founded. The 
letter requests the certificate from;.!===.----___, stating that the interview of the Petitioner was 
broadcast on I 12016 atl I We first note that although the translation of the certificate 
includes the words "with the Petitioner's last name and first and middle initials], the technical Director 
of ·~-------~ a comparison of those words in the original Russian-language letter 
requesting the certificate shows that they do not appear in the ori]inal Russian-language certificate. 
In other words, the Russian-language certificate froml _ does not name the Petitioner, his 
title or the name of his company, despite that information appearing in the English language 
translation. The certificate therefore does not identify the Petitioner as the subject of the interview 
which it states was broadcast. In addition, the certificate indicates that the interview was initially aired 
onl I 2017, a year after the date stated in the request letter. This also conflicts with the 
date that the video of the interview (accessed via the link provided by the Petitioner) is stated to have 
been posted on c=J·s website.I I 2016. The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies 
in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 
l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Absent such a resolution, this evidence does not establish that the 
interview of the Petitioner was broadcast or "published" as required. 2 
As indicated above, the Petitioner also submitted a document titled "Magazine's articles reviews," 
which includes a translator's certification and accompanies a copy of materials appearing in the 
Russian-language magazines National Business and Ecology, Production and Business of the XXI 
Century. However, the document is a summary of these articles, rather than a translation of them. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) requires any document in a foreign language to be 
accompanied by a full English language translation, not a summary. Accordingly, we cannot evaluate 
this evidence since it is not accompanied by an English language translation. 
For all of the reasons stated above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Director found that this criterion had been met, but did not provide an analysis of the evidence 
submitted. The record includes a copy of an article co-authored by the Petitioner which was published 
in the journal The Physics of Metals and Metallography. He also submits untranslated copies of what 
2 We further note that the video of this interview was accessible through the website of the Petitioner's company,~ 
and not the entity through which it was claimed to be broadcast.hi; I Further, the video linked to a YouTube 
channel in the Petitioner's name, not an outlet or platform linked to ~ I I provided by the Petitioner and accessed on July 14, 2020. Given the 
discrepancies identified with the certificate above, the record lacks evidence to show that the interview was aired bvl I 
c=Jas claimed. These additional discrepancies regarding the publication or airing of this interview must also be addressed 
in any further proceedings in this matter. 
4 
appear to be papers presented at conferences, as well as pages from the curriculum vitae or online 
profile of another researcher which list him as a coauthor on two conference papers. The evidence of 
the publication of a single scholarly article at the time the petition was filed is sufficient to meet this 
criterion; however, the untranslated and unsubstantiated evidence cannot be considered. 3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have performed 
in a leading or critical role, and that the organization or establishment for which they performed that 
role has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from its impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. An individual's performance in 
this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or establishment as a whole. 
The record includes evidence which establishes that the Petitioner was a co-founder of I I and 
that he has served as its technical director since its founding in 2013. A letter from the company's 
director, who as previously noted is the Petitioner's brother, indicates that he was instrumental in 
recognizing an untapped market forD sales and services and devising the company's business plan. 
He further indicates that the Petitioner led the accreditation process for the company's testing 
laboratory, which is supported by documentary evidence in the record. 
Regarding ts reputation, the Director noted that some of the documents submitted in support of 
this claim included spelling errors in the English translations, or lacked a proper certification from the 
translator as required per 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Upon review, we do not agree that the typographical 
errors in these translations are material to the probative value of the evidence. However, we do agree 
that it does not demonstrate thatl lhas the requisite distinguished reputation. 
Several types of evidence were submitted in support of this criterion, and specifically to show that 
I I has a distinguished reputation. This includes a list of contracts showing clients to whom the 
company sold several types of testing equipment, and letters from some of those companies which 
express satisfaction with the equipment delivered. Other letters thank I I for providing c=J 
services, some of which specifically name the Petitioner as the employee who provided those services. 
While this evidence indicates that the company is actively doing business and, at least in some cases, 
receiving positive feedback from its clients, it does not establish thaU I has distinguished itself 
from other companies providing similar products and services. This includes the extensive evidence 
of the Petitioner's work testing cranes for thel I nrtural qis plant. While this may be an important, 
large-scale project, the evidence does not show that s role in it has garnered the company a 
distinguished reputation. 
3 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit an English 
language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and 
thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the president of the0chamber of Commerce and 
Industry, issued after a request from his brother for support for the instant petition. The letter confirms, 
among other things, thatl ldoes not owe any taxes, fees, penalties or fines, and is not in 
bankruptcy or any pending litigation proceedings. It also indicates that the company received 
"confirmation of the competence of a commercial mobile laboratory," that it has had a net profit in the 
preceding three years, and that it was included in a regional governmental report titled I I 
Although this letter as well ,__----,----,-----,------,------,--------,--,--------,-------,----------,--' ~sin the record mention this report, the actual report was not submitted, and thus the context of 
L___js mention in it cannot be evaluated to determine whether it reflects on the company's 
reputation. Further, although the letter shows thatl I is an active company and in compliance 
with all local rules and regulations, this is not sufficient to establish that it has a distinguished 
reputation. 
In addition, the record includes a letter dated J I 2018 from the "Entrepreneurship and 
Industry Development Fund" which notifies tha I has been included in a list of nominees for 
"The Best Company in Russia-2018." We first note that the English translation of this letter does not 
include a translator's certification as required per 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Because the Petitioner did 
not submit a properly certified English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully 
determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports his claims. 
For all of the reasons stated above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submitted several types of evidence in support of this criterion, including a 
governmental grant for small businesses in th~ I region in the amount of 300,000 rubles 
which was awarded tol I in 2013. In his decision, the Director found that this grant could not be 
considered to be part of the Petitioner's remuneration, since it was awarded to his company, not him. 
Although the Petitioner does not directly refute the Director's finding on appeal or explain why the 
value of this award should be considered as part of his remuneration, he continues to refer to this 
evidence as supporting his claim under this criterion. Upon review we agree with the Director, and 
further note that a document titled "Regulations on providing grants (subsidies) to small business 
startups in 2016" states in part 5.2.5 that "[T]he plan for spending subsidy funds in a business in a 
business project (paragraph 4.3 of Appendix 2) should not to include payments for taxes, fee, fines 
and penalties, as well as payments on wages employees." We will therefore not consider this amount 
as part of the Petitioner's remuneration. 
The Petitioner also submitted a "Form No. 2-NDFL" listing his monthly income in 2016, as well as a 
letter from his brother confirming his employment and salary witrl I during the same period. In 
his decision, the Director noted a discrepancy between the statement on the letter that the Petitioner's 
average monthly salary was 147,000, while the form indicated that he was paid 149,000 for each month 
6 
in 2016.4 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from I Is accountant, which explains that 
salary reductions due to leaves of absence are not recorded on the Form No. 2-NDFL. Accordingly, 
we will accept this evidence as representative of the Petitioner's salary in 2016. 
Regarding the evidence of the salaries of other business professionals in the field to which the 
Petitioner's salary may be compared, the record includes evidence in the form of job postings listed 
on the websites rabota66.ru, Superjob and HeadHunter, some of which indicate they were posted in 
the months prior to the filing of the instant petition. We first note that job postings such as these 
provide only a snapshot of a single job opportunity, and do not show overall industry trends, or ranges 
of salaries based upon level of experience and qualification. They are therefore generally not adequate 
to establish the appropriate data for comparison for purposes of this criterion. In addition, there is a 
great deal of variance in the offered wages, ranging from 30,000 to 100,000 rubles per month, and the 
reasons for this variance are not apparent in the job offerings. Further, many of the positions do not 
appear to be comparable to the Petitioner's role and duties withl I For example, one of the 
positions titled as technical director involves management of the service department of an automobile 
dealer, while others are for management of construction projects. Sip.c.e..1qe Petitioner's duties include 
management of th0testing laboratory as well as oversight of alt _ _Jand quality projects, market 
analysis and client management, these positions do not represent an appropriate comparison to his. 
Other positions are labelled "Head of laboratory o~ I testing," with salaries rang in~ from I 
30,000 to 47,000 rubles per month. However, these positions are limited to management of a 
laboratory, and do not include the broader market analysis, client management and overall company 
leadership duties which are inherent to the Petitioner's roles as technical director and co-founder. For 
all of these reasons, these job postings do not establish an adequate basis for comparison to the 
Petitioner's salary. 
Other evidence includes a salary survey for the position of "Director of the technical center," obtained 
from the website trud.com. As the evidence does not provide a description of the duties of this 
position, however, the Petitioner has not established that this survey provides data which is appropriate 
for comparison to his salary. To this point, the survey provides wages for similarly titled jobs such as 
"technical director" and "director for technical development," but does not provide descriptions of the 
duties for those positions or an explanation as to why individuals in those positions earn higher 
salaries. More importantly, the survey provides only average wages; however, the regulation requires 
evidence that the Petitioner "has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field," rather than a salary that is above average. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional information to demonstrate that the Petitioner's salary in 
2016 was high relative to others in the field. As previously noted, where a petitioner has been put on 
notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, 
the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 
764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We have therefore limited our 
review to the materials in the record at the time of the Director's decision. 
4 The Director also questioned the credibility of the Form No. 2-NDFL (which he referred to as paystubs) and the I~~ 
letter as neither indicated the currency in which these wages were paid. Since the evidence shows that the Petitioner was 
working in Russia in 2016, and that the form is used by employers in Russia to report employee incomes to the government, 
we take administrative notice that his salary was paid in rubles. 
7 
As the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his salary is (or was) high in relation to others in his field, 
we find that he does not meet this criterion. 
We note that the Petitioner also asserts on appeal that he meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original contributions of major significance in his field. 
However, as we have determined that he meets only one of the other five criteria he claims to meet, 
the issue of whether he meets an additional criterion is moot, since the evidence does not establish that 
he satisfies the initial evidence requirement of meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria. We 
therefore decline to reach, and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding this 
criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to 
make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 {Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l){A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 12, 2024 In Re: 31527284 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an automotive glass manufacturer, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Beneficiary 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not show the 
Beneficiary 's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined the Beneficiary met three of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original contributions of 
major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director's decision simply indicates the Beneficiary's satisfaction of the three criteria mentioned 
above without explaining his determination. Although the record shows the Beneficiary's experience 
in reviewing a research grant proposal and a journal article and authoring scholarly articles in 
professional publications, thereby meeting the judging and scholarly articles criteria, the record does 
not reflect the Beneficiary's achievement ofmaking original contributions ofmajor significance in the 
field. Again, the Director did not explain, including identifying the evidence, which original 
contributions the Beneficiary made and how he determined them to be majorly significant. While we 
do not concur with the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled at least three criteria, we will evaluate 
the totality of the evidence since the Director conducted a final merits determination, including the 
documentation relating to the original contributions of major significance criterion. 1 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As indicated above, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, 2 he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and his achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze an individual's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to 
demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we 
determine the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
In the initial cover letter, the Petitioner described the Beneficiary's education and employment 
background: 
In 1994, [ the Beneficiary] obtained a Bachelor of Science with Honors in Electronics 
and Communication Engineering from ______ in Egypt. He later obtained 
a Master of Science in Electronics and Communication Engineering from I I I I in Egypt. . . . [The Beneficiary] then obtained his Doctor of Philosophy in 
Electrical and Computer Engineering from the 
[The Beneficiary] was em lo ed as a Customer Su ort Electrical En ineer from 1996 
to 1997 with the 
He also served as Graduate Teaching Assistant at the __________ 
Department of Computer Science, from 1999 -2003. Contemporaneously with this 
teaching experience, [the Beneficiary] worked as a researcher in antenna engineering 
with the Egypt, from 1997 to 2004. 
Upon relocating to Canada, [the Beneficiary] worked as a Teaching Assistant, Research 
Assistant, and Post-Doctoral Fellow at the ranging from 2004 
to 2014. Following this experience, [the Beneficiary] worked as an engineer at I lin 2015, and as an Antenna Design Engineer with 
I Ifrom 2015 to 2017. In October 2017, [the Beneficiary] joined 
[the Petitioner]. Currently, [the Beneficiary] serves as the leader of the Antenna and 
Connectivity Group, as well as the Group Leader for the Regional Connected Systems 
Group. 
As discussed further below, the Beneficiary has conducted some review work, authored material, and 
shared his original works. However, in considering the totality of the evidence, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that the Beneficiary's achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). Furthermore, the 
Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary has risen to that small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The commentary for the proposed regulations 
implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high 
standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the 
petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 
Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
enjoys a career that meets this very high standard. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner 
provided two instances of the Beneficiary's judging experience - a paper review for the I I 
______________ (2017) and a research grant review forl I 
(2023). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that these two judging instances contributed to a finding 
that the Beneficiary has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. 
The Petitioner did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's limited experience in reviewing the 
works of others compares to others at the very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
establish, for instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from the field based on his 
evaluation work. Moreover, serving as a judge or evaluator does not automatically demonstrate that 
an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top 
of his field. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (stating that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). 
Without evidence that sets the Beneficiary apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has 
a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the Beneficiary's narrow judging experience places him among that small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. The record 
reflects that the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored two book chapters 
and over a dozen journal/symposia articles from 2003. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary's publication record is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work, 
sustaining national or international acclaim, and being among the small percentage at the very top of 
his field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance of the Beneficiary's authorships or how his 
publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 4 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra. at F.2(B)(2) (providing that an example where evidence in the record may help in 
determining whether in a totality analysis that considers all of the evidence, the person is among the small percentage at 
the top of the field and has sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that others have 
been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate 
pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided evidence of material 
downloads, views, and citations. However, the Petitioner did not offer evidence demonstrating the 
significance or relevance of those figures. For instance, the Petitioner did not compare the 
Beneficiary's numbers to those among the very top of the field or to show the Beneficiary's work 
received a level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's 
metrics represent attention at a level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top 
of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Similarly, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's presented material garnered him any 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the significance of the Beneficiary's presentations or how they impacted the field 
consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to submit more extensive documentation 
than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Furthermore, at initial filing, the Petitioner submitted a letter claiming the Beneficiary "has been 
contributing meaningful to several technical development projects" and "has been listed as an inventor 
on three recently-filed United States Patent applications." However, the Petitioner did not provide 
corroborating evidence to support its assertions. In response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner provide evidence showing that one of the patents, which listed the Beneficiary 
as one of the inventors, was approved after the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be established at 
initial filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary's involvement with three recent patents with the Petitioner reflects a career of acclaimed 
work, sustaining national or international acclaim, and being among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance of the Beneficiary's patents and pending 
patents, how they compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the field, or whether the 
Beneficiary garnered attention throughout the field consistent with sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided several recommendation letters that summarized the Beneficiary's 
work. Although they praise the Beneficiary's work and personal traits, they do not contain sufficient 
information and explanation to show that he is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited 
few, among the upper echelon or that he has garnered recognition on a national or international scale, 
consistent with being among the small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor. In fact, the 
letters speculate on the prospective influence the Beneficiary's work will have on the field rather than 
already having influenced the field in a major way. For example, the Beneficiary's "innovations and 
expertise in antenna technology are poised to have a significant impact on people's lives" (K-S-), and 
"[t]his research will help connect the underserved communities and provide safer roads" (T-A-D-). 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary has made impactful or influential 
contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the 
5 
I required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish how the Beneficiary's work resulted in 
widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that 
overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2) 
and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record contains some ofthe Beneficiar 's student awards, such as a certificate ofrecognition from 
the Student Conference for best poster (2007) and a certificate 
of appreciation from the ________ Graduate Students' Association for the GSA 
I(2010). 5 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's student 
awards place him among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
There is no indication the overall field recognizes these awards among the upper echelon rather than 
limited to students at the USCIS has long held that even athletes performing 
at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an 
individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. The Petitioner did not demonstrate, 
for instance, that the Beneficiary competed against other accomplished individuals or how his 
academic awards compare to other renowned individuals within his field. 
Further, the Petitioner presented evidence of the Beneficiary's membership with the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2023. However, the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary's recent membership resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or reflects 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2) and (3). The record, for instance, does not contain 
evidence showing that the Beneficiary received national or international recognition based on his 
membership with this association. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary 
distinguished himself from others in the field based on his IEEE membership, gaining national or 
international attention or placing him among the upper echelon in his field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level 
athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of 
"extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding 
that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 
2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that 
"arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a 
5 The Petitioner also provided a letter in response to the Director's RFE; however, the letter 
indicates the Beneficiary's receipt after the initial filing of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(1 ). 
6 
baseball coach). In this case, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of the Beneficiary's work 
is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career 
ofacclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 12, 2024 In Re: 32494501 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pharmaceutical production manager in the field of microbiology, seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics; 
• They seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three of the ten listed criteria, which includes evidence about lesser awards they may have 
received, published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, 
among other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner is currently employed as the head of microbiology for a pharmaceutical company in the 
United States, focusing on sterility in pharmaceutical production operations. He holds a master's 
degree in applied microbiology from I in India and has been working in the field of 
microbiology in the pharmaceutical industry since graduating in 2009. The record includes a letter 
from his employer regarding a recent promotion and pay raise, sufficiently evidencing his intent to 
continue working in his field. 
A. The Petitioner's Field of Endeavor 
In Parts 5 and 6 ofForm I-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Workers, the Petitioner listed his current 
and proposed job title as microbiology manager (microbiology department head). The Director noted 
in her decision that when responding to her request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner stated that his 
field of endeavor is microbiology, not the more narrowly defined field of microbiology management. 
She considered this to be an impermissible material change to the petition and compared the difference 
between these two fields to that between an athlete competing in a sport and one transitioning to 
coaching in the same sport. The Director also concluded that, as the Petitioner indicated that his 
occupation is microbiology manager, he must meet the requirements of the evidentiary criteria based 
on his work in that field only. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that there was no material change to his petition. Our review of the 
record shows that he has been consistent in describing his field of endeavor in the field of 
microbiology, and that the explanation in his response to the Director's RFE was not a material change. 
We therefore withdraw the Director's conclusion in that regard. In addition, to the extent that the 
Director limited consideration of the evidence to that which applied only to the narrower field of 
microbiology management, we withdraw those conclusions and consider the evidence applicable to 
the field of microbiology. 
2 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others. 
However, for the reasons below, we withdraw the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion. 
Further, although the Petitioner asserts that he also meets an additional five evidentiary criteria on 
appeal, after reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have received prizes or awards, which were 
granted for excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in their field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate indicating that he presented a paper at a conference in 2008. In 
the blank line following "presented a paper entitled" is handwritten the title of the paper followed by 
"and won third prize." Other certificates in the record include appreciation awards from the 
Petitioner's employers, a paper award entitled "Eminent Prudent India" from an organization called 
__________ a letter from H-L-, LLC bestowing an "Industrial Excellence Award" 
to the Petitioner, and a "Certificate ofExcellence" from I Iwhich congratulates the Petitioner 
for the installation of the company's I Iequipment at his employer's facility. The Director 
determined that none of this evidence showed that the Petitioner had received a nationally recognized 
prize or award for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's statement that "any award less than First/Grand 
Prize is not honoring excellence in the field." We agree that "excellence" is not inherently limited to 
a first place or grand prize award. But as explained above, it is a petitioner's burden to establish, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that a particular award or prize meets all of the elements of this 
criterion, including that it was granted based upon excellence in their field of endeavor. Here, the 
Petitioner relies solely upon the handwritten notation on the certificate awarding him third prize at the 
conference and does not provide information about the criteria for the awarding of this prize, the 
number of competitors, or any limitations on competitors, all of which are relevant considerations in 
making this determination. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not met his burden to establish 
that the third prize certificate was awarded for excellence in the field of microbiology. 
Similarly, the Petitioner relies upon the word "eminent" on the certificate awarded by the 
__________ organization to assert that it was awarded for excellence, without 
providing further documentary information about the award criteria, number of competitors, or other 
awards granted at this event." It is also not apparent whether this was one of the top prizes awarded 
at this event. The Petitioner has therefore not demonstrated that the "Eminent Prudent India" award 
was granted for excellence in the field of microbiology. 
3 
Next, the Petitioner asserts that the "Certificate of Excellence" from I I is "particularly 
notable as it was given directly in recognition ofthe I Itechnology introduced by [Petitioner] 
to the pharmaceutical industry in the United States." But this quotation from the writer of an expert 
opinion letter ( and repeated by the Petitioner in his brief) is, at the least, a distortion of the facts 
presented in the record. Neither the certificate, nor the "customer testimonial" concerning this project, 
suggest that the Petitioner had a role in "introducing" the technology behind this equipment. Rather, 
they verify that he led his employer's project to acquire and install the equipment, and the certificate 
rewards his "unwavering dedication" to select and install! Iproducts. As with the awards 
considered above, the evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner received this certificate for 
excellence in the field of microbiology. 
Regarding the remaining certificates of achievement submitted under this criterion, the Petitioner 
makes a blanket statement that they were all issued by multinational organizations and so should be 
considered "international in nature." But this assertion is insufficiently detailed to challenge the 
Director's decision, 1 and reflects a misunderstanding ofthe requirements ofthis criterion, one ofwhich 
calls for evidence that prizes or awards be nationally or internationally recognized. The fact that the 
certificates were issued by multinational organizations alone is insufficient to show that they are 
recognized beyond those organizations in the broader field of microbiology. We conclude that none 
of the certificates evidence prizes that have been shown to have the required level of recognition in 
the Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
For all the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of published material 
that is both about them and related to their work in the field of endeavor. This evidence must include 
the title, date, and author of the material, and comply with the provisions regarding the translation of 
materials in a foreign language at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(3). In addition, a petitioner must submit 
evidence that the medium in which the material was published is a professional or major trade medium, 
or other major medium. 
As the Petitioner concedes that one of the materials submitted in response to the Director's RFE was 
published after the time of filing and therefore cannot be considered to establish his eligibility for this 
petition, the sole remaining evidence in the record is a single paragraph which appeared in the Indian 
newspaper Dainik Jagran in 2012.2 However, the English translation of this article does not comply 
1 Cf Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (declining to address a "passing reference" to an argument in a brief 
that did not provide legal support) 
2 The Director concluded that the article did not discuss the Petitioner's work in his field, and was not published in a major 
medium. As it is about the Petitioner's research in microbiology, we disagree and determine that it is about the Petitioner 
4 
with the requirements at 8 C.F.R. 103.2(b)(3). Per the regulation, the translator must certify that the 
English language translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. Id. Here, the translator makes no statement about the completeness 
of the translation, nor does he verify his competence to translate from Hindi to English. Because the 
Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the article as required, 
we accord it no weight as we cannot determine whether it supports their claim. We further note that 
the evidence lacks the name ofthe author of this material, as required. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This criterion requires evidence that an individual acted as a judge of the work of others engaged in 
the same field of endeavor, or an allied field. The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this 
criterion based on submitted comments on several World Health Organization (WHO) draft 
documents pertaining to pharmaceutical manufacturing standards and practices. However, the emails 
requesting an unspecified group to submit any comments on these documents include "PUBLIC 
CONSULTATION" in their subject lines, a process in which organizations typically publish calls for 
comments from the general public. Although the Petitioner, in response to the RFE, described his role 
as peer review, he did not explain the nature of his involvement with the WHO. In addition, the 
Petitioner submitted the pages listing his name in the acknowledgements section of the final 
documents published by the WHO, but this evidence does not indicate that he and the others listed 
were selected by the WHO to judge the work of the named members of the relevant committee. 3 
Similarly, the Petitioner also provided a letter from USP, acknowledging receipt of his "PF 
comments." The organization's website at www.uspnf.com explains that Pharmacopeial Forum (PF) 
"is a free bimonthly online journal in which United States Pharmacopeia (USP) publishes proposed 
revisions to USP-NF for public review and comment." 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they were invited to judge the work of others in 
their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The 
record does not establish that the Petitioner was selected or personally invited by the WHO or USP to 
participate in reviewing and providing comments on these documents, but that he voluntarily 
responded to calls for public comment. As such, we withdraw the Director's determination and 
conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
and his work in the field of endeavor. In addition, the record includes several documents showing Dainik Jagran 's history 
and readership figures over an extended period and sufficiently verify its status as a major medium in India at the time. 
3 We note that the full text of the acknowledgments section of these reports, which were not submitted but are publicly 
available at www.who.int/publications, thanks the Petitioner and dozens of others for "the valuable contributions made" 
to the work of the expert committee responsible for the report. 
5 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence that they have authored scholarly articles in 
their field of endeavor, and that the media in which the articles were published are professional or 
major trade media, or other major media. 
In claiming that he meets the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner partially relies upon his 
previously discussed role as a commentor on several draft WHO reports relating to pharmaceutical 
standards and practices. We note that the Director mischaracterized this role in her decision, stating 
that the Petitioner's "editing" of these reports "may relate to being a co-author on a scholarly article." 
As discussed above, the Petitioner submitted comments on the draft documents as part of a call for 
public consultation, activity which he described as "peer review" in his response to the Director's 
RFE, and his name was listed in the acknowledgments section for a reason not specified in the 
evidence. This evidence does not show that he acted or was credited either as an editor or an author 
of the WHO reports. 
The Director also concluded that the evidence of the Petitioner's service as a keynote speaker at a 
conference did not show that he had authored a scholarly article that was published in one of the 
qualifying types of media. We agree that the record does not establish that the Petitioner authored a 
scholarly article in connection with this conference, and he does not challenge this aspect of the 
Director's decision on appeal. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 
28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 
2012)). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have served in a role 
that was either leading or critical for an organization or establishment, and that the organization or 
establishment has a distinguished reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the 
overall organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. Evidence supporting a critical 
role should show that the petitioner has contributed in a manner that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities, or those of a division or department. 
Here, the Director stated in her decision that the Petitioner's role "may have been leading or critical" 
for his current employer in the United States, but concluded that he had not submitted evidence of 
awards, recognition or achievements garnered by his employer, and thus had not established its 
distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner interprets the Director's statement as a conclusion 
regarding his role with his employer, and asserts that the employer's distinguished reputation is 
"demonstrated by the honors received by [sic] multiple international organizations for its 
groundbreaking implementation of colony counter automation in its sterile laboratory." 
Regarding the first element ofthis criterion, to the extent that the Director's statement was a conclusion 
regarding the Petitioner's role, we withdraw that conclusion in part. As noted above, a petitioner must 
show that their role is leading or critical for an organization or establishment, or a department or 
division thereof. To support the claim that his role for his employer is leading, the Petitioner submitted 
6 
an organizational chart showing his role as senior manager, microbiology reporting to the senior vice 
president of operations (SVPO) along with 9 other managers, and another showing that his direct 
reports total 12 microbiologists and technicians. This evidence shows that his position is leading for 
the microbiology department of his employer, but not for his employer overall. 
Turning to whether the Petitioner has established that he serves in a critical role, the evidence includes 
a letter from his immediate supervisor, the previously mentioned SVPO. He explains that the 
Petitioner is responsible for the quality and safety of injectable pharmaceuticals at the company's 
production facility in the United States, and was responsible for the installation and implementation 
of a sterile laboratory at the facility. The writer further notes that the I Iequipment installed 
in the laboratory under the Petitioner's leadership was the first such installation in the U.S. He also 
notes that he heavily depends on the Petitioner to ensure the safety and quality of injectable 
pharmaceuticals produced at the facility. This letter sufficiently demonstrates the Petitioner's critical 
role for his employer's pharmaceutical production facility, but again not for his employer overall. 
As for the distinguished reputation of either the microbiology department or the facility, we note that 
the Petitioner's statement speaks of awards received by his employer, but the evidence he refers to are 
the certificates he personally received that were discussed above. The record does not contain 
evidence of any awards or other recognition received by the Petitioner's employer. While other 
evidence referred to on appeal, including letters from the Petitioner's former and current colleagues, 
refer to the microbiology laboratory as "state of the art," this evidence is insufficient to show that the 
laboratory, facility, or the Petitioner's employer enjoy a distinguished reputation in the field of 
microbiology or amongst pharmaceutical producers. As such, the Petitioner has not shown that he 
meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Per the analysis above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of five of the 
six evidentiary criteria he has claimed on appeal. Although he claims eligibility for an additional 
criterion on appeal, relating to original contributions of major significance at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), he cannot fulfill the initial evidence requirement of meeting at least three 
of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Since the identified basis for denial is 
dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve his appellate arguments 
regarding the additional criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that 
agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the 
ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the sustained acclaim 
and recognition as amongst the very top of his field required for the classification sought. 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF T-B-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 13, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a psychologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinaiy ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief mirroring her prior arguments made in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) that she meets four additional criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofT-B-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claimed employment as a program coordinator with.__ ______ ___. since 2018. 
Because she has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
In denying the pet1t1on, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for 
a journal. In addition, she authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, as indicated above, the Petitioner repeats her arguments that she made in response to the 
RFE without addressing the Director's specific findings or identifying any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact. Regardless, we have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude 
that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Matter ofT-B-
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to satisfy this regulatory criterion, a petitioner must establish her receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The Director 
determined that the Petitioner's receipt of medals for the "Patriot of Russia" and "For the Promotion 
of Education" did not qualify for this criterion. Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the medals' recognition for excellence in her field, psychology. 
The record contains background infmmation reflecting that the "Patriot of Russia" and "For the 
Promotion of Education" medals "[are] awarded for a great contribution to the improvement of the 
system of patriotic education of Russian citizens and the implementation of patriotic education 
programs" and "for the significant expert and consultative activity in the field of education of youth." 
Here, the evidence indicates acknowledgment of the Petitioner's work in the area of education. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that her field of endeavor, psychology, recognizes the 
medals as national or international prizes or awards for excellence consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she fulfills this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classffication is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that membership in the association is 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 2 The Director found that the Petitioner's 
membership with the All-Russian Junior Academy of Sciences (ARJAS) did not qualify for this 
criterion, as she did not show that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a letter from of 
ARJAS, who indicated that membership requires: active participation in the organization, unique 
competence and support of gifted children, achievements in the development of ideas, knowledge of 
infmmational technologies, experience in the support and coordination of creative directors, and 
experience in authoring publications. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that ARJAS' 
membership requirements of participation, competence, knowledge, and experience rise to the level 
of "outstanding achievements" required by this regulatory criterion. In addition, the Petitioner did not 
establish that membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
1 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADIJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://v..rww.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 See users Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distingnished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Matter ofT-B-
As such, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that she has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 3 For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. The Director 
concluded that the citations to the Petitioner's published works, conference presentations, and 
recommendation letters did not establish her eligibility for this criterion. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence showing that her cumulative citations for her 
published works received 69 citations, which included 24 self-citations, resulting in 45 independent 
citations. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how her cumulative number of citations 
identifies which of her works represent contributions of major significance in the field. We note that 
aggregate citation figures tend to reflect a petitioner's overall publication record, rather than 
identifying which research the field considers to be majorly significant. In addition, the Petitioner did 
not articulate the significance or relevance of these citation numbers. For example, she did not 
demonstrate that these citations are unusually high in her field or how they compare to other articles 
that the field views as having been majorly significant. Although her citations are indicative that her 
work has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not establish that her citation 
numbers represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 4 Here, she has not sufficiently shown 
that her citations for any of her published articles are commensurate with contributions of major 
significance. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted three article excerpts that cited to her work. However, 
a review of those articles do not show the significance of her work in the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to her work. Likewise, the Petitioner provided evidence of her participation and 
presentation at conferences but did not demonstrate that they resulted in contributions of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
The Petitioner submitted letters as evidence of her contributions. The record includes a letter from 
managing partner at I I LLC, who claimed that the Petitioner's 
"outstanding expertise in multicultural dialogue methodology provided a critical contribution to every 
phase of training development and implementation process" and "[t]he application of those 
technologies effectively results in the significant increase of quality of the multicultural dialogue 
which results in improved wellbeing and decreased cross cultural conflict and misunderstanding." 
3 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
Matter ofT-B-
However.I I did not provide specific details explaining how the Petitioner's contributions 
significantly impacted or influenced the psychology field. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml _ _ ~. the deputy director of ~I --~ 
I I who indicated that the Petitioner developed and 
oversaw a child suicide prevention program that has "been successfully implemented" and "are now 
being followed by specialists nationwide and abroad." Again, I I indicated broad 
claims without detailed information showing that her model has influenced the field in a major way. 
Here, the letters do not contain detailed, probative information that explain how her original 
contributions are tantamount to major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has peiformed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner's role with I I did not fulfill this criterion. As it relates to a 
leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, 
the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 8 
The letter from I I discussed above, indicated that the Petitioner was a program 
director. However, I Is letter does not establish that the Petitioner held a leading 
position, nor does it contain specific information signifying her essential role for the institution. 9 For 
instancej I did not describe the hierarchy and structure ofLJ and compare the 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have al ready influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
7 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
Matter ofT-B-
Petitioner's position as a program director to others within the institution overall. Moreover, while I I discussed the Petitioner's involvement with several projects, she did not show how 
those projects contributed to the success or standing otl I Further, although the Petitioner 
provided an unidentified document claiming to be about the mission and background of the institution, 
she did demonstrate thatl I enjoys a distinguished reputation.10 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears 
the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has 
not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofT-B-, ID# 3850200 (AAO Aug. 13, 2019) 
10 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionmy definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 13, 2024 In Re: 32821142 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and National Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either 
through her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, by satisfying at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to nonc1t1zens who: have 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business or athletics which has been demonstrated 
by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation; seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F.Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Here, because the Petitioner has not indicated or established her receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed she could satisfy seven ofthe ten criteria, but the Director 
determined that she met only one, by providing evidence that she has displayed her work at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director applied evidentiary requirements that are not found 
in the plain language of the regulations and disregarded relevant evidence. The Petitioner maintains 
that the evidence demonstrates that she satisfies the criteria related to receipt of nationally recognized 
awards, memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements, published materials in 
major media, judging the work of others, earning a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration, and commercial successes in the performing arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.3(h)(i)-(iv), (ix) 
and (x). 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude the Petitioner has demonstrated that she meets at least 
two additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and therefore satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements for the requested classification. 
First, to meet the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner must show that she has 
been the recipient of an award that qualifies as a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence in her field of endeavor. The record includes evidence that she received a 
Best Singer Award from the ______________________ in 2021. 
Evidence of her receipt of the award is supported by statements from the awarding entity, information 
regarding the purpose and history of the award, and evidence of media coverage received by the 
Petitioner and other winners of awards from this organization, not all of which was weighed in the 
Director's decision. Considered in its totality, we conclude that the Petitioner met her burden to 
demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that this award qualifies as a nationally recognized 
award for excellence in the Petitioner's field in Bangladesh and meets the plain language of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Further, to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner must provide published 
material about her in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Such evidence 
must include the title, date and author of the material, and any necessary translation. In evaluating 
whether a publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or other major media, 
relevant factors include the intended audience and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership. 
See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing evaluation 
of initial evidence of extraordinary ability under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
2 
The Director concluded that, although the Petitioner submitted published newspaper articles about her 
and her work as a singer, she did not submit sufficient evidence to support her claim that the articles 
were published in major media. The Director acknowledged the Petitioner submitted several sources of 
information regarding Bangladeshi daily newspapers but found each source to be inadequate either due 
to a lack of an English translation that was fully compliant with the regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 103.2(b)(3), 
or because the sources ranked publications without providing specific circulation or readership numbers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a certificate of translation for a document issued by the Government 
ofBangladesh, Directorate ofFilm and Publications Audit Branch, which lists the circulation figures for 
both Bengali language and English language daily newspapers as of June 2018. 1 In addition, she 
emphasizes that the previously submitted translation was substantially compliant with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3) and notes she also provided other credible rankings of publications based on their relative 
circulation, including an article published by the BBC and a scholarly article about Bangladeshi 
newspapers published in a reputable academic journal. 
The Petitioner has provided relevant and credible evidence in support of her claim that some of the 
submitted articles were published in daily newspapers that qualify as major media in Bangladesh and 
otherwise meet the requirements of the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). She 
is not required to demonstrate that every submitted article satisfies the criterion. 
With eligibility established under these two additional criteria, the Petitioner satisfied part one of the 
two-step adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the sole basis for the denial of 
her petition. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met 
the initial evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional 
eligibility claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, granting three initial criteria does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the 
Petitioner seeks or establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. USCIS must now 
determine whether the record establishes the sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very top 
of her field. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety to make 
a final merits determination. The final merits determination should weigh the evidence submitted in 
support of all claimed initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), any other relevant 
evidence in the record, and the Petitioner's claims and evidence on appeal. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 The Director emphasized in the decision that the information in this document is outdated and therefore lacks probative 
value. However, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted newspaper articles about her that were published in 2018. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF M-M-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 14, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an art director and visual effects artist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least three of 
the ten criteria and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter of M-M-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Petitioner is an art director and visual effects artist. As he has not established that 
he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two criteria: published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record contains an article about 
the Petitioner and his work in the visual arts as well as documentation establishing that the article was 
published in a major medium. It also includes articles, letters of recommendation, and an award 
showing that his paintings have been displayed as part of the Societe N ationale des Beaux Arts' 
(SNBA) annual exhibition. 1 Accordingly, we agree with the Director that he has met the criterion for 
published material and for display. 
The record also establishes that the Petitioner meets the criterion for lesser awards under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). It shows that, as a member of the United States delegation, he received the 2011 
Special Prize in painting given at thel I annual exhibition in D-The record includes media 
and letters showing that this prize is nationally recognized as an award for excellence in the visual 
1 Evidence in the record indicates that this was an artistic exhibition, as required. 
2 
Matter of M-M-
arts. Accordingly he has demonstrated that he meets the criterion for awards. Since he has established 
that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the 
context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he has worked "as an internationally recognized Art Director and Visual 
Effects Artist in the United States for nearly a decade." As mentioned, the record shows that, as a 
representative from the United States, he received the Grand Prize in painting at the I I annual 
exhibition at thel ~n 2011. The record also contains multiple letters of recommendation showing 
that the Petitioner has worked as a visual effects artist on commercials, movies, and television shows 
from 2014 through 2018. 3 The record, however, does not demonstrate that these achievements, when 
viewed in the totality, are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress or place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3). 
Regarding his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, as discussed above the 
record establishes the Petitioner's receipt of such an award in the field of visual arts in 2011. While 
we do not question that this prize is widely considered to be a significant achievement for a visual 
artist, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his receipt of this single award approximately eight years 
ago is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Nor does the record as a whole reflect such acclaim or include extensive documentation 
demonstrating that his achievements have been recognized in the field. Id. 
As we note above, the Petitioner also met the criterion for published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). He offers three brief articles about his work in fine arts and visual effects published 
in La Stampa, L 'Espresso, and fl Venerdi di Repubblica, but establishes that only one of these 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3The record includes also screenshots from the website TMDb.com about the various television shows and commercials 
the Petitioner has worked on. and other evidence we have reviewed but do not specifically discuss here. 
3 
Matter of M-M-
publications, II Venerdi di Repubblica, represents a major publication. 4 The record also reflects that 
the Petitioner was interviewed about his work for the television show .__ __________ ____." 
a show appearing on the Italian television network RAI, but does not demonstrate that this network is 
a major medium. 5 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that a single qualifying article in a major 
medium published over two years ago is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, 
the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Even considering 
the totality of the two additional articles and television interview, the Petitioner has not shown that 
this press coverage represents a level of success and recognition consistent with being among "that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
With respect to the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(lii), thl record reflects that the 
Petitioner's work was displayed at the I I in 2011 as part of the artistic exhibition related 
to the prize discussed above. However, while we acknowledge the significance of that event, the 
record lacks evidence showing that the Petitioner remains nationally or internationally acclaimed 
based on his achievement over eight years ago, or demonstrating additional achievements that have 
received recognition in the field.6 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 
(3). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
With respect to the Petitioner's memberships, he provides evidence confirming his membership with 
the Visual Effects Society (VES) and with the Associazione Effetti Visivi (A VFX). The record 
contains membership requirements for these associations, but they do not reflect that membership 
requires outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field.7 For 
example, VES requires that applicants "must be actively engaged in the production or creation of 
4 The record contains correspondence from the editors of La Stampa and L 'Espresso providing circulation statistics, as 
well as a printout entitled "Media tool kit" showing average circulation and website monthly visitors for these 
publications and selected others. However, these materials do not establish that either the on-line or print circulation of 
these publications is high relative to those with which they are being compared. See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 
602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 The Petitioner provides a document titled "Media tool kit" which lists viewing statistics for what appear to be different 
television stations. However, he does not indicate on which channel this interview aired, nor does he provide evidence 
demonstrating that his appearance on Community rises to the level indicative of national a;:;.::c=cl=a=im=.'------~ 
6 While the Petitioner provides Wikipedia pri?t outs related to two 2016 motion pictures, .___~~-----' and I I as well as the television show I,_ _____ ____.~' as evidence that his work has been displayed in a11istic 
exfobit10ns, these materials do not reference the Petitioner, establish that it was his work displayed in these media, or 
show that his work received recognition in the field. 
7 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); see also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 
Matter of M-M-
visual effects ... for not less than five (5) years." Similarly the correspondence from AVFX's 
president and co-founder states "we are looking for people that [have] worked in the industry for at 
least 5 years and have worked in internationally recognized and successful projects." Here the 
Petitioner has not provided evidence demonstrating that these associations limit their membership to 
individuals with renowned endeavors nor has he otherwise demonstrated the significance of these 
memberships such that they contribute to a finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner also asserts that he has served in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 As evidence of his leading role, the Petitioner 
provides multiple letters from employees of I 11 I andl I, organizational 
charts for each of these visual effects studios, and information about them establishing their 
distinguished reputations. Regarding his claim that he served in a leading role for these organizations, 
the record does not support his assertions. Each organization chart confirms that the Petitioner served 
as a lead compositor for several projects, and the accompanying letters indicate generally that, in this 
role, the Petitioner served as a freelance artist in charge of executing these projects. However, while 
the Petitioner led isolated projects, considered within the hierarchy of the organizational charts, the 
evidence does not demonstrate that he served in a leading role for the organization itself 
The Petitioner also references the abovementioned letters of recommendation in support of his claim 
that he served in a critical role for these organizations. While the letters reflect his work in the field 
on a variety of projects, they lack information demonstrating that the significance of his contributions 
are commensurate with those at the very top )2f bis field of' endeavor or that the_,._....""'-'-' ........... ~....,ht him 
national or international acclaim. For example'-· ____ _._ head of roduction fo asserts 
that the Petitioner "was the key element for the success of the........,,==------~----~ ~---------- which received the Gold prize at the D awards which "honor excellence 
in local, regional television across all screens."9 She does not indicate whether he was a named 
recipient on that award or provide detailed information to support her assertion crediting him with the 
success of the project. Nor does the record otherwise include evidence that, beyond I l the 
field has recognized the Petitioner's contribution to the production. I I chief executive 
officer ofl I similarly provides a detailed description of the Petitioner's contributions as a 
visual artist and describes his role on a specific project, but only asserts generally that his success in 
leading this project resulted in new business revenue. Here the evidence does not sufficiently 
distinguish his work from others in his field or show that it reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. Therefore, this evidence does not 
support a finding that his contributions are indicative of a level of success consistent with being among 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
8 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
Matter of M-M-
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. In visa petition proceedings, the petitioner bears the burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of M-M-, ID# 3626108 (AAO Aug. 14, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 14, 2023 In Re: 27032681 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a technology engineer and entrepreneur , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor . See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a technology engineer and entrepreneur who has formed several start-up companies 
based on technologies that he has developed and which have garnered large investment sums. He 
intends to continue his work in the United States developing technology related to artificial 
intelligence (AI) and self-driving vehicles. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director detennined that the Petitioner met one of the criteria he claimed to have satisfied: 
published material about the Petitioner and his work in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. 1 The record supports this determination. The Director concluded , however, that 
the Petitioner did not establish that he met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (viii), and (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (viii); 
he indicates that USCIS used incorrect judgment in interpreting the evidence of his case. In addition 
to meeting the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we conclude that the Petitioner satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii). 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) by demonstrating his original 
contributions ofmajor significance to the field oftechnology . Specifically, endorsement letters, patent 
applications, and articles in the record demonstrate his original contributions of major significance in 
natural language processing technology and AI. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) by showing that he has performed 
both leading and critical roles for companies that have distinguished reputations. Notably, the record 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . 
2 
contains letters of endorsement and articles demonstrating his leading and critical roles at his 
distinguished technology companies. 
The Petitioner sufficiently demonstrates that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), 
and (viii). Therefore, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits 
determination, discussed below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will conduct a final merits 
determination that considers the entire record in the context of whether or not the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he enjoys a level of expertise indicating that 
he is one of a small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, and that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
of expertise . In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if a petitioner's successes are sufficient to demonstrate 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(B)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 
204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We conclude that the Petitioner has 
demonstrated his eligibility for this classification. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner has made valuable contributions to the field oftechnology­
specifically regarding artificial intelligence and automated vehicles-through his innovative 
approaches to solving issues related to voice recognition and data latency. The letters ofendorsement 
from accomplished figures in the technology sector-as well as media coverage relating to the 
Petitioner's contributions in the field-not only show that his original work at his companies has 
significantly impacted the fields of artificial intelligence and remote vehicle operation; this evidence 
is also indicative of the Petitioner's acclaim in the field nationally. The Petitioner was accepted into 
an entrepreneurial immigration incentive program in Ireland that has rigorous standards for application 
acceptance. Also ofnote is the following evidence ofthe Petitioner's standing in the field, as described 
in a letter from an experienced expert in the technology sector: 
[The Petitioner] was selected to join Forbes Business Council, an extremely selective 
and prestigious organization that consists of respected leaders and executives who are 
selected based on the depth and diversity of their experience in technology, 
management, leadership, customer engagement, and growth. Becoming a part of this 
elite community attests to the fact that [the Petitioner] is a valued expert. Thanks to his 
internationally recognized expertise, he was also invited to Harvard Leaders Excellence 
and Enterprise Island, two other important organizations that allow only the very best 
to join their ranks. 
A significant element in determining the Petitioner's relevancy in the field of technology is the fact 
that venture capital firms have invested tens of millions of dollars into his companies because­
according to letters of endorsement and interviews -they believe the Petitioner has consistently 
demonstrated that he is a visionary who can overcome obstacles to his ventures by creating innovative 
technological solutions. Finally, the fact that the Petitioner performs both leading and critical roles at 
3 
companies receiving considerable venture capital and media attention speaks to his renown in the field 
and the distinguished reputations of those companies. 
The totality of the record, including the Petitioner's original contributions ofmajor significance to the 
field, the impact of his work in the field, the roles he has performed for his companies, and the 
published materials about his work confirm that he enjoys a level of expertise that is consistent with a 
finding that he is one of a small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor, 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim, and that his achievements have been recognized 
in the field of expertise. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, the Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the 
evidence that he is eligible for the exclusive classification sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria! listed at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that his 
achievements have been recognized in this field of expertise. Finally, the Petitioner has shown that 
he intends to continue work in his area of extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. Therefore, the Petitioner has established his eligibility for the 
benefit sought under section 203 of the Act. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 14, 2024 In Re: 32432667 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a video game production business, seeks to classy the Beneficiary, an environment concept 
art lead, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)( 1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded the Beneficiary fulfilled only one -leading or 
critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's 
qualification for five further criteria, including two additional criteria through the submission of 
comparable evidence. Issues and prior eligibility claims not raised on appeal are waived. See, e.g., 
Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 
658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the 
Beneficiary meets at least three categories of evidence. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner states that it "submitted evidence of the awards bestowed on the video games to which 
[the Beneficiary] contributed in a critical and essential capacity" and "did not provide evidence of 
awards that were received by [the Beneficiary] individually." In addition, the Petitioner argues the 
USCIS Policy Manual applies "a much stringent interpretation," indicating that "[t]he description of 
this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the 
awards or prizes, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes." 1 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
We do not concur with the Petitioner's argument. In determining eligibility for this criterion, we look 
to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), requiring "[d]ocumentation of the 
alien's receipt" ofprizes or awards. Prizes or awards not received by or bestowed upon the Beneficiary 
do not meet this regulatory criterion. In addition, we consider the term "alien's receipt" using its 
ordinary, common meaning. See, e.g., Perrin v. United States, 444 U.S. 37, 42 (1979) ("A 
fundamental canon ofstatutory construction is that, unless otherwise defined, words will be interpreted 
as taking their ordinary, contemporary, common meaning ...."). Thus, the USCIS Policy Manual's 
guidance is consistent with the regulation in instructing that the focus should be on the person's receipt 
of awards or prizes rather than on the employer's receipt of awards or prizes. Moreover, 
notwithstanding the Petitioner's own admission that the Beneficiary never individually received 
awards, the record does not contain evidence reflecting the awarding entities specifically naming or 
acknowledging the Beneficiary as an award recipient. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that video games "are not recognized through awards to individual 
contributors, such as to individual Visual Effects Artists, Animators, etc., but instead through awards 
issued to the video game project as a whole -it is ensemble work and not solo work." However, the 
record does not fully support the Petitioner's assertions of only awarding ensemble work rather than 
solo work. The Petitioner's evidence reflects numerous named nominees for various awards. For 
example, for the video game ___________ the British Academy of Film and 
Television Arts named 3 individuals for the 2020 "Best Narrative" category and the Motion Picture 
Sound Editors named 23 individuals for the 2021 "Outstanding Achievements in Sound Editing -
Computer Cinematic" category and 19 individuals for the 2021 "Outstanding Achievement in Sound 
Editing -Computer Interactive Game Play" category. In addition, individuals were named in "Art 
Direction, Fantasy," "Direction in a Game Cinema," and "Game, Franchise Action" categories for the 
2020 National Academy of Video Game Trade Reviewers. 
Because the Petitioner did not show the Beneficiary received any prizes or awards, we need not 
determine whether the prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This regulatory criterion requires published material about the individual, relating to work in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 2 The Petitioner claims the 
Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based on digital material from kotaku.com, pcgamer.com, 
dexerto.com, and vgr.com and hardcover material from I I 
I I 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
3 
At initial filing, in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), and on appeal, the Petitioner 
made the same assertions about each of these publications without submitting any evidence to 
corroborate its claims. For instance, the Petitioner claims that "Kotaku.com is ranked 585 in the US 
and 2,070 in the world out of approximately 30 million websites," "PCGamer.com is ranked 593 in 
the US and 1,233 in the world out of approximately 30 million websites," "Dexerto.com is ranked 
2,103 in the US and 5,548 in the world out of approximately 30 million websites," and "VGR.com is 
ranked 29,011 in the US and 80,397 in the world out of approximately 30 million websites." 
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, 
or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade 
publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and 
other major media). 3 Because the Petitioner did not provide evidence to support its assertions or 
include any other evidence relating to the standing or status of any of the publications, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that any of these digital or hardcover publications constitute professional or major 
trade publications or other major media.4 Therefore, we need not address the Petitioner's arguments 
relating to whether the evidence qualifies as published material about the Beneficiary relating to his 
work in the field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe 
work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
USCIS determines whether the person has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specification.5 The petitioner must show that the person has not only been invited to 
judge the work of others, but also that the person actually participated in the judging of the work of 
others in the same or allied field of specialization.6 For example, a petitioner might document the 
person's peer review work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the 
review, accompanied by evidence confirming that the person actually completed the review. 7 
The Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based on him having "been invited 
to deliver master classes at the I I Initially, the Petitioner 
provided a letter from G-A-, chair of entertainment design atl Iwho stated that the Beneficiary 
"has been invited to give master classes and critiques as well as other presentations at I The 
letter, however, does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary actually participated in the judging of the 
work of others rather than being invited to give master classes and critiques. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not show how the letter establishes that giving master classes and critiques involves serving as a 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 We note that the screenshots from vgr.com contain an "About" page indicating the mission and a "Meet Our Staff" 
section. However, the Petitioner did not establish how the information demonstrates professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium standing of the website. 
5 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
4 
judge of the work of others, consistent with this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, the letter does not 
elaborate and indicates who, when, and what the Beneficiary purportedly judged. 
Similarly, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from T-B-, acting chair 
and director of the entertainment design department atl Iwho stated that the Beneficiary "has 
been invited on numerous occasions to share his wealth ofknowledge and expertise with our students" 
and "[e]ach interaction has been marked by [the Beneficiary's] dedication to imparting practical 
knowledge and preparing students for success in their future careers." Moreover, T-B-indicated: 
In the Entertainment Design Graduation class, [the Beneficiary] provided invaluable 
industry advice, portfolio suggestions, and professional critiques on concept art .... 
In the 3D Fundamentals class, [the Beneficiary] showcased his ability to translate 2D 
images into 3D sculptures while emphasizing the practical applications of these 
fundamentals in the context of concept art .... 
Furthermore, in the Design Process class, [the Beneficiary's] presentation provided a 
crucial introduction for our first-term students to the world of design in video games. 
His guidance on the design process, coupled with personalized assistance during the 
final assignment reviews, demonstrated his commitment to fostering the growth and 
development of emerging talent. 
Again, the Petitioner did not show how T-B-'s letter demonstrates the Beneficiary's participation as a 
judge of the work of others. Instead, the letter indicates that the Beneficiary provided advice, 
suggestions, and critiques, showcased his work, and made presentations. Further, the letter does not 
describe how any of the Beneficiary's actions involved participating as a judge of the work of others, 
including who, when, and what the Beneficiary purportedly judged. 
Without evidence reflecting the Beneficiary's participation as a judge of the work of others, including 
specific, detailed information, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation 
paid to others working in the field. 8 According to Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
the Petitioner indicated the Beneficiary's job title as "Environment Concept Art Lead." In the initial 
cover letter, the Petitioner described the Beneficiary's job: 9 
[The Petitioner] has selected [ the Beneficiary] to work closely with our Art Director 
and Lead World Artist to conceptualize visual components and review the design and 
development of visual assets for [the Petitioner's] upcoming original next-generation 
AAA title. In this role, [the Beneficiary] will play a critical role in our productions, 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
9 The initial cover letter repeats the letter from R-E-, game director and co-founder for the Petitioner. 
5 
and in the success of our company as a whole. [The Beneficiary] will work closely 
with external teams around the world to give art feedback and direction for worlds 
being developed. He will drive the visual department of all internal worlds and maps, 
including Bluesky development, tasking the teams concept artist and external 
outsourcing artists. He will be critical to keep the production of [the Petitioner] in line 
with the strict art direction by creating thorough style guides and art guides for all 
external SIE partners and internal [Petitioner] art teams. He will be responsible for 
building and managing a strong AAA level concept art team and outsourcing artists. 
The Petitioner also provided paystubs indicating the Beneficiary earns approximately $82/hour or 
$1 71, 000/year. As comparative evidence, the Petitioner submitted screenshots from flcdatacenter. com 
for "Special Effects Artists and Animators" with the following description: "[ c ]reate special effects 
or animations using film, video, computers or other electronic tools and media for use in products, 
such as computer games, movies, music videos, and commercials." In addition, the Petitioner offered 
salary information from glassdoor.com and salary.com for "Concept Artists." 
However, the Petitioner did not offer comparable salary evidence pertaining to the Beneficiary's 
specific occupation as an "Environment Concept Art Lead." Specifically, the Beneficiary's position 
of a "Lead" suggests a higher job classification than an environment concept artist. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner's own job description contains further job duties and responsibilities than a special effects 
artist or animator or concept artist, justifying a more leading position. Thus, in order to meet this 
criterion, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary received a high salary in relation to other 
environment concept art leads rather than other special effects artists or animators or concept artists. 
Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering a professional golfer's earnings 
versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 
713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a 
comparison to others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965,968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering 
NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Because the 
Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence demonstrating the salaries of other environment concept 
art leads, the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary commands a high salary in relation to others 
in his field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
In both the RFE response and on appeal, the Petitioner requests the Beneficiary's eligibility be 
considered through comparable evidence and references regulations and policy relating to the 0-1 
nonimmigrant classification. For instance, in the RFE response, the Petitioner requested the 
Beneficiary's documentation be considered comparable as a "record of major commercial or critically 
acclaimed successes, as evidenced by such indicators as title, rating, standing in the field, box office 
receipts, motion pictures or television ratings" and "[e ]vidence that beneficiary has received 
significant recognition for achievements from organizations, critics, government agencies or other 
recognized experts in the field in which the beneficiary is engaged." However, these regulations fall 
6 
under the requirements for 0-1 nonimmigrants in the arts or motion picture or television industry - 8 
C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(iv)(B)(4) and (5) or 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(v)(B)(4) and (5), respectively. 10 On 
appeal, the Petitioner references a draft memorandum in the adjudication of 0-1 nonimmigrants. 
Although the regulations for several immigrant and nonimmigrant classifications allow for the 
consideration ofcomparable evidence, we will not consider how regulation or policy relates to another 
immigrant or nonimmigrant category. Rather, we will apply the comparable evidence requirements 
and policy as they relate to the immigrant classification for individuals of extraordinary ability under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 11 
This regulatory provision provides petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable evidence to 
establish the person's eligibility, if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria described in the 
regulations do not readily apply to the person's occupation. 12 When evaluating such comparable 
evidence, officers must consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily applicable to the person's 
occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to the criteria listed in that 
regulation. 13 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims: 
. . . At least two of the criteria are not readily applicable to [the Beneficiary's] 
occupation and field of expertise, which include the criterion for "display of the alien's 
work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases," which is reserved for traditional 
artists showcasing their work in exhibitions, and the criterion "commercial successes 
in the performing arts," which typically only applies to performing artists. With respect 
to the latter criterion, the Service acknowledges in its decision that "[g]iven the very 
specific language at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(x), we are not persuaded that this criterion 
can apply to any field other than the performing arts." We therefore respectfully submit 
that the Service misapplied its own law and policy in wholly disregarding the evidence 
that [the Petitioner] submitted as other comparable evidence. 
Although the Petitioner indicates two criteria to apply comparable evidence, the Petitioner does not 
identify what evidence should be considered and how it is comparable to the regulatory criteria for the 
immigrant classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. The burden remains with the 
Petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit sought. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. We note 
that the Petitioner's RFE response, referencing 0-1 nonimmigrant regulatory criteria, discussed 
evidence claiming the impact of his contributions with video games and acknowledgement for 
achievements in the field by others relate more to the original contributions criterion under the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
10 The prov1s10ns for comparable evidence for 0-1 nonimmigrants under these categories fall within C.F.R. 
§ 214.2(o)(3)(iv)(C) or 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(v)(C), respectively. 
11 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
12 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
13 Id. 
7 
Without identifying such evidence and explaining how the documentation is comparable to the 
respective regulatory criteria, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary's eligibility for 
additional criteria through the submission of comparable evidence. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajf'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 14 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish 
the Beneficiary satisfies any additional categories of evidence, 
including through the submission of comparable evidence. Although the Petitioner also argues the 
Beneficiary's eligibility for the original contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we 
need not reach this additional ground because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Further, we need not review the Director's 
favorable determination for the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), as 
well as provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 15 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
14 See also generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
15 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
8 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of 
the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Beneficiary among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 14, 2024 In Re: 32566029 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability on behalf of the Beneficiary, 
a materials science & polymer researcher, See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the pet1t10n, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the required initial evidentiary criteria, the Petitioner did not 
show that the Beneficiary enjoys sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics as demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such 
as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner filed this petition on May 22, 2023, and must established the Beneficiary's eligibility 
for this highly restrictive visa classification as of that date. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner is 
also acting as his own counsel in this matter, noting "[h] e is representing [ the Beneficiary] in both his 
immigration matters and his personal/professional goals in the United States." In a personal statement, 
the Beneficiary discusses his employment plans should this petitioner be approved, indicating 
"[r]esearch positions in both [a]cademia and [i]ndustry are the scope of my career plan. Additionally, 
I plan to attend conferences [and] seminars and otherwise participate in the research community ofthe 
United States, sharing my own expertise as well as acquiring new skills and knowledge." In 2015, the 
Beneficiary obtained his doctoral degree in polymer science from a university abroad. 
Because the Petitioner did not claim or establish that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Beneficiary met three of those 
criteria: judging (iv), scholarly articles (vi), and leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation (viii). Based on our do novo review ofthe evidence 
submitted before the Director and the Petitioner's appeal brief, we agree with the Director that the 
Beneficiary has not met other criteria. 
For instance, the Director determined that the Beneficiary did not meet the receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). They concluded, among other things, that the evidence provided about his awards was 
insufficient to show the national or international significance ofthe awards, and that excellence in the 
field of endeavor was the basis for granting them. 
They observed that the Petitioner's award was part of an annual competition put 
on by the city ofl Ithat involves conferring 50 awards in 22 categories, which are "awarded to 
a select group of [50 to 80] candidates each year." Other evidence in the record suggested that the 
competition for these awards is limited to Russian Federation citizens living, working, or attending 
schools in I I The Petitioner acknowledged some of these competition limitations in his initial 
brief by sharing that the Beneficiary's specific "innovation award" involved "citizens of the Russian 
Federation living in ______________ in the field of creating technical 
2 
innovations." The Director determined that the Petitioner's evidence fell short in demonstrating that 
this award was a nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
On appeal the Petitioner generally asserts that the Director's conclusions in this regard "constitutes an 
incorrect application of facts," further alleging that in denying the petition, the Director "failed to 
make a rational connection between the facts of this case and the decision." However, the Petitioner 
does not support his appeal by specifically explaining how the Director misapplied the facts in 
determining that the evidence did not establish that the Beneficiary met this criterion. Ifthe Petitioner 
does not explain the specific aspects of the decision that he considers to be incorrect, he has failed to 
meaningfully identify the reasons for taking an appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). We agree with 
the Director that this criterion has not been met. 1 
The Director denied the petition, concluding the record did not show the Beneficiary warranted 
favorable consideration in a final merits determination based on the totality of the evidence. As the 
Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary enjoys sustained national or international 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required 
high level of expertise ofthe immigrant classification). In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner 
has not shown his eligibility. While we may not discuss every document submitted, we have reviewed 
and considered each one. 
As a preliminary matter, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director erred in concluding that the 
Beneficiary did not meet the contributions of major significance in the field criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). To satisfy the plain language of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that a 
beneficiary has not only made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major 
significance in the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. However, for the sake 
ofbrevity we need not consider the Petitioner's assertions on appeal regarding whether the Beneficiary 
has met this criterion as the Director has already determined that he met three other alternate criteria. 
Rather, we will review the Petitioner's arguments raised on appeal about the significance of the 
Beneficiary's original scientific contributions to the field within the context of the final merits 
determination. 
1 We incorporate our determination that the record does not indicate the Beneficiary has garnered internationally 
recognized prizes and awards for excellence in the field into our final merits determination. We conclude that, without 
more, the awards evidence does little to support the Petitioner's contention that the Beneficiary is one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 
The Petitioner contends on appeal, among other things, that the Director's evaluation of the evidence 
"overlooks the inherent value and recognition his work has already garnered within the scientific 
community," and asserts "the significant and practical applications of this research have been 
acknowledged by his peers, as evidenced by the citations and the adoption of his methodologies by 
others in the field." We have reviewed the Petitioner's initial submission, his response and additional 
documentation from the Director's notice of intent to deny the petition (NOID), the Director's 
decision, and the Petitioner's appeal brief For the following reasons, we conclude the decision 
reflects the Director thoroughly reviewed the record and correctly and sufficiently articulated reasons 
why the Petitioner's evidence and assertions of eligibility fell short in demonstrating that the 
Beneficiary meets the requirements for classification as an individual with extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. 
The Director addressed the impact of the Beneficiary's published research on the field in the denial, 
discussing some of the letters submitted by others in the field commenting on the significance of the 
Beneficiary's research findings. For example, they took note of a letter from Dr. D-who stated that 
the Beneficiary was the first author of two research papers but observed the citation record evidence 
indicated that these research papers had only garnered 28 citations since 2019. Other authors also 
wrote letters in support of the petition speaking highly of the Beneficiary and his work in the field, but 
the Director concluded that they did not individually or collectively explain how his research has been 
used or cited in a manner that demonstrates his published work has remarkably impacted or 
significantly influenced the field. 
The Director noted that much of the evidence in the record highlights the potential future growth of 
the Beneficiary's work, but it does not establish that at the time of filing the petition the Beneficiary 
had made original contributions of major significance to the field. The Director informed the 
Petitioner that eligibility for the benefits sought in this petition cannot be based on the expectation of 
the future significance of the Beneficiary's work. They cited to Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 
49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971), which requires that beneficiaries seeking employment-based immigrant 
classification must possess the necessary qualifications as ofthe.filing date ofthe visa petition. On appeal, 
the Petitioner suggests: 
The standard set by Matter ofKatigbak should be applied with an understanding that 
significance in scientific research often manifests through incremental advances that 
collectively represent major contributions. To this extent, the [B]eneficiary's work has 
been foundational for subsequent research. 
It appears that the Petitioner is asking us to ignore the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1) 
which requires that the Petitioner must demonstrate that at the time of filing the petition, the 
Beneficiary met the statutory and regulatory requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). He suggests 
that the Beneficiary can establish his eligibility through research findings that will "manifest" original 
contributions of major significance through collective incremental advances to the field at some 
unknown time in the future. 
We lack the authority to waive or disregard any of the Act's requirements, as implemented by 
regulation. See United States v. Nixon, 418 U.S. 683,695 (1974) ("So long as this regulation is extant 
4 
it has the force oflaw."). Immigration regulations carry the force and effect oflaw. United States ex 
rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy, 347 U.S. 260,265 (1954). Therefore, we cannot "credit" the Beneficiary 
with unrealized accomplishments that may at some future point in time come to fruition and establish 
his eligibility. We agree with the Director that many of the reference letters discuss his scientific 
accomplishments as if they may someday significantly impact or influence the field, but not that they 
already constitute such documented achievements, and as such they are oflittle probative value to the 
matter here. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
The Director observed in discussing the significance of the Beneficiary's published work that the 
Petitioner provided comparative data about the Beneficiary's citation record that limited the analysis of 
the significance of his work relative to the work of other researchers in the Russian Federation, while 
scientists conducting research in the field located beyond the Russian Federation's borders have published 
scholarly works accruing hundreds of citations that far exceeded the Petitioner's own citation record. 
They noted that the Beneficiary's highest cited paper only garnered 60 citations since 2015 and concluded 
that the magnitude ofthe Beneficiary's citation record did not substantiate the Petitioner's assertions that 
in the field ofmaterials and polymer science, he "has made a major impact and received sustained national 
and international acclaim." 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends: The [B]eneficiary's citation count, especially within a specialized 
niche of materials and polymer science, is indicative of the influence his research has in the field. 
Citation metrics should be contextualized within the field's size and the nature of the work. .." On 
appeal, the Petitioner seems to suggest that the Beneficiary's citation record should be considered in 
the context of a specialized niche of materials and polymer science. In response to the Director's 
notice of intent to deny (NOID) the petition, the Petitioner claimed: 
Most of the works published by [the Beneficiary] in the field of materials science dealt 
with the implementation of supercritical carbon dioxide, the study of aerogels and 
hydrophobic coatings. To highlight that this is not a niche area, but a broad and 
established domain, we point to a total number of articles published worldwide on the 
matter being 37,497. (Emphasis added.) 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's 46 scholarly articles have been influential, highlighting 
that at the time of filing the petition, his work had garnered 443 citations. On appeal, the Petitioner 
states that the Beneficiary's research interests are in a specialized niche within the materials and 
polymer science field. In contrast, in the NOID response the Petitioner indicated that the Beneficiary's 
research was not in a niche, but in a "broad and established domain" in which no less than 37,497 
scholarly articles had been published worldwide. 
While the Petitioner suggests on appeal that we should review the significance of the Beneficiary's 
research findings within a new, narrower context other than that considered by the Director in denying 
the petition, he does not provide evidence or narrative justifications for doing so. The Petitioner has 
not furnished new data or pointed to previously submitted circulation statistics on appeal to distinguish 
between the Beneficiary's asserted influence in a newly claimed research niche as opposed to the 
general materials and polymer science domain which encompasses an immense body of scholarly 
articles. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the 
immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. We conclude the Petitioner did 
5 
I not meet his burden by submitting evidence sufficient to show that the Beneficiary's authorships and 
overall publication record favorably compares to others who are viewed to be at the very top of the 
field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In the denial, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had submitted evidence of the Beneficiary's 
five patents and took note that each patent lists multiple inventors and the Beneficiary's former employer 
abroad. They did not question the importance of the Petitioner's work for his employer but noted that 
researchers are expected to develop and design innovations for their employers, whose intellectual 
property is protected by patents. The Director determined that this evidence showed the Beneficiary to 
be a productive member of his employer's research teams, but the evidence provided about the patents 
was insufficient to demonstrate the major significance of the Beneficiary's original contributions to the 
field. 
While patents constitute evidence of originality, they do not necessarily show major significance in 
the field ifthey have not been utilized. In response to the NOID, the Petitioner submitted a letter from 
I (S-) in which he discussed the Beneficiary's role in a project that made use of some of 
the patented technologies that he co-invented. S-discussed the seed funding that the project received 
and indicated that the project was chosen for its innovative solution to the global textile market's 
wastewater issue, reflecting a major environmental and technological challenge. S-opines on the 
Beneficiary's contributions to this project which led "to the creation of a full-scale industrial 
prototype," but he does not discuss how this patented technology significantly influenced advances in 
the field. 
The record also contains an undated letter from _____ Ph.d (Y-) who indicates that he is 
employed by a university in Kazakhstan, whose "mission is to foster advancements in science and 
technology..." In the NOID response, the Petitioner references this letter as "evidence that [Y-'s 
university] is highly interested in the [B]eneficiary's contributions to the field, including the 
supercritical CO2 technology fabricated by [the Beneficiary] and his development of aerogels for 
water purification." Y-indicates in the letter that his university is interested in the Beneficiary's 
technologies, and notes that his institution is "in the final stage of negotiations with [ the Beneficiary] 
to facilitate the licensing of [his] technologies for use in Kazakhstan." It is not apparent from this 
undated letter when it was written, whether the application of this water purification technology has 
advanced beyond the prototype project discussed by S-in his letter, or that this technology has been 
licensed by Y-' s institution for widespread use in Kazakhstan. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the Beneficiary is listed as an inventor on five patents "that are 
currently being used in the field," but does not offer evidence or narrative to provide further insight into 
the significance of the Petitioner's patented works. We conclude that the record does not reflect that 
this prototype has been widely adopted for use by textile companies, or that this wastewater solution 
has had marked influence in the field. While the Petitioner asserts on appeal that his patented works 
are being used by others, he has not shown that the Beneficiary through his patented works has 
significantly impacted the field or otherwise indicates that he enjoys sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
Turning to the Petitioner's argument on appeal that the Director "overlooked" the international 
recognition that the Beneficiary engendered through performing peer reviews of the work of others, the 
6 
Petitioner asserts on appeal that "the role of the Beneficiary's peer reviews extends beyond routine 
contributions." While he generally asserts that the Director "overlooked" evidence regarding his peer 
review work, he does not explain the specific aspects of the decision that he considers to be incorrect in 
the Director's discussion of this material. For instance, he does not point to any document in the record 
that the Director ignored, nor does he further explain how the peer review evidence in the record 
demonstrates the Beneficiary's peer review work is "intemational[ly] recognized" beyond the routine 
contributions performed by other peer reviewers in the field. As in this case, it is insufficient for an 
appellant to merely assert that it doesn't agree with a denial decision or that the preceding authority made 
an improper determination. If the Petitioner does not explain the specific aspects of the decision that he 
considers to be incorrect, he has failed to meaningfully identify the reasons for taking an appeal. To 
review the appeal, it would therefore be necessary to search through the record and speculate on what 
possible errors the Petitioner claims. Matter ofValencia, 19 I&N Dec. 354,355 (BIA 1986). We decline 
to do so here. 
The Petitioner also contests the Director's determination that the Beneficiary's leading or critical roles 
performed while employed at academic and research institutions abroad do not adequately support his 
claim that that the Beneficiary is an individual of extraordinary ability. In denying the petition, the 
Director concluded that the Beneficiary met the plain language of the leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). We 
will not discuss or disturb their affirmative alternate criterion determination. However, based on our 
de novo review of the evidence regarding the leading or critical nature of the work the Beneficiary 
performed abroad, we conclude that it falls short in establishing that he is one of that small percentage 
of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has provided evidence of the Beneficiary's roles and responsibilities performed at a 
research institution (I-) and at a company that the Beneficiary helped found (S-C-). According to the 
letters provided by Beneficiary's Ph.D. advisor, who is also the head of a laboratory at 1-, the 
Beneficiary was one of the principal investigators on a project focusing on colloidal and dispersed 
systems in supercritical carbon dioxide. He noted that the Beneficiary was charged with the 
formulation of the general project idea and of preparing the successful grant application for this 
project. The advisor states that during the project, the Beneficiary developed a new approach to the 
synthesis of metal oxide aerogels. He was involved in the project "polymers of the future" in which 
the advisor was head investigator. One of the Beneficiary's roles was to draft a successful project 
proposal to further the research. The advisor also explains that the Beneficiary's role involved carrying 
out the scientific leadership ofthe research team, which included members holding Ph.Ds. in a variety 
of scientific specialties, a doctoral student and undergraduate students. 
As stated in the advisor's letters, the Beneficiary's responsibilities included the setting of scientific 
goals, the development of a research plan and control over the implementation of these studies. His 
tasks included writing the first drafts of scientific articles, editing articles, and communicating with 
publishers and publish articles. The advisor opined that the Beneficiary's role in this project was 
undoubtedly critical, and the Beneficiary was involved in research projects at I-for seven years (2015 
to 2022), which "indicates a sustained contribution to the scientific community within this institution." 
The advisor asserts that through the work the Beneficiary performed, particularly while involved with 
the polymers of the future project -which was backed by the Russian Ministry of Science and 
Education -"he played an indispensable role in shaping 1-'s scientific trajectory." 
7 
We do not doubt that the Beneficiary is a talented scientist who performed important work during his 
tenure at I-. It is also apparent that his advisor and the authors of other letters who discuss his 
accomplishments at I-hold him in high regard. However, collectively considering the evidence in the 
record about his research activities while employed there, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
presented contemporaneous, documentary evidence sufficient to distinguish how the Beneficiary's 
roles and responsibilities differentiated from that of his post-doctoral peers managing other research 
projects either at I-or at other research institutions conducting research projects in the materials and 
polymer science field. The departments, divisions, and large research projects within research 
organizations all have managers or individuals in similar positions to manage or oversee their research 
work, but the Petitioner has not shown how the Beneficiary, through his role at 1-, garnered sustained 
national or international recognition or acclaim. 
The Beneficiary's advisor also discusses the significance of his CTO role at S-C-, a technological 
startup, "that was created to transfer technology from [I-] into the market." His advisor references the 
same project that I I(S-) discussed in his letter involving innovative solution to the global 
textile market's wastewater issue, which we addressed above in discussing the lack of sufficient 
evidence to establish the major significance of the Beneficiary's original patented technologies. The 
advisor indicates that the Beneficiary performed a leading role in S-C-to bring this technology to 
market as he "was responsible for overseeing all technological aspects of the startup," and "led the 
company's strategic direction in terms of technology, research and development while also managing 
the engineering team." S-also opined on the Beneficiary's contributions to this project which led "to 
the creation of a full-scale industrial prototype," but neither S-nor the Beneficiary's advisor 
adequately discuss how this patented technology has significantly influenced water purification 
advances in the field. 
We incorporate our previous discussion about the lack of sufficient evidence that the scholarly articles 
and patented technologies that the Beneficiary focused on during this tenure at I-and S-C-are 
indicative of his being "one of the top scientists in his field" as the Petitioner contends on appeal. 
While there is little doubt that the Beneficiary made important contributions to these institutions while 
employed there, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's roles performed there are 
indicative of his standing as one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Based on our de novo review ofthe evidence and the Director's decision we conclude that the Director 
thoroughly examined and considered the submitted documentation; he discussed various aspects of 
the evidence individually, but collectively considered the entire record to ultimately determine that the 
Beneficiary is not an individual of extraordinary ability. To determine whether a petitioner has 
established eligibility for a requested benefit by a preponderance of the evidence, USCIS must 
examine each piece of evidence -both individually and within the context of the entire record -for 
relevance, probative value, and credibility. Matter of Chawathe, supra. While the Petitioner may 
disagree with aspects of the Director's analysis of the evidence, he has not sufficiently demonstrated 
that the Director neglected to collectively consider the record under the preponderance ofthe evidence 
standard, or that he otherwise erred as a matter of law or policy in denying the petition. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 
31, 2023) ( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective 
immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 
2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a 
published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that 
"[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. 
Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous 
baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Beneficiary among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered an independent and 
alternative basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 14, 2024 In Re: 32918407 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pianist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner studied at He has since erformed internationall . 
From 2014 to 2021, the Petitioner taught at the __________________ ________ The Petitioner entered the United States in July 2021 as a B-2 nonimmigrant 
visitor. The Petitioner stated that he intends to pursue research into "music as a means of therapy" for 
individuals with mental and neurological disorders, and to produce cultural events at restaurants in 
Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he meets the criteria relating to published material and leading or critical roles, and a 
previously unclaimed criterion relating to display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner 
does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the criteria relating to high remuneration and 
commercial success. Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner has waived appeal for those criteria. 1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the criteria 
claimed in the initial filing of the petition. We discuss these conclusions below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen .. 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-2731201 1, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
I In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or 
major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade 
publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership ( for major trade publications and other 
major media). See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner submitted a translated article that appeared in Caretas in 1985, when the Petitioner was 
eight years old. The article stated that the Petitioner gave a well-received performance at a municipal 
auditorium in Peru. Neither the article nor its English translation includes the required author 
credit. The Petitioner submitted an excerpt from a 1991 report called Latin American Journalism, which 
called Caretas a "major publication[] in Peru" and "a national weekly." 
The Petitioner also submitted a 2016 article from the "Local" section of Del Pais, indicating that the 
Petitioner performed a piano recital at a senior citizens' home inl I The Petitioner did not submit 
circulation information about Del Pais. 
In a September 2023 request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner had not submitted 
circulation data and other evidence to establish that the submitted articles appeared in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, and that the submitted articles did not include the 
information required by the regulation. The Director stated that, if the Petitioner chose to submit more 
evidence, the "[ a ]dditional published material should be dated prior to the" petition's filing date. The 
reason for this requirement is that a petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing 
the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Subsequent developments cannot retroactively cause the 
Petitioner to have been eligible at the time of filing. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! 
Comm'r 1971). The Petitioner filed the petition in June 2022. 
The Petitioner's response to the RFE did not include further evidence regarding the articles he submitted 
with the petition. Instead, the Petitioner submitted a printout of a screen capture from the website of a 
locall Itelevision program. The Petitioner did not submit a transcript ofthe television segment, 
but information on the printout indicates that the segment is a two-minute story about the Petitioner's 
attempt "to get [an] artist visa." The news story appeared inl 12023, more than a year after the 
Petitioner filed the petition and two months after the Director issued the RFE. 
The Petitioner also submitted a translated screen capture reflecting television coverage of a pianorecital 
that the Petitioner performed to mark the 76th anniversary ofl a district of 
I The Petitioner did not submit a translated transcript, and the story is not dated. Finally, the 
Petitioner submitted a translation of a January 2002 listing from the "Cultural" section of La Republica, 
providing the time, date, and address of an upcoming concert by the Petitioner. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the Petitioner did not "establish the circulation statistics" to 
demonstrate that the published material appeared in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media. The Director also repeated that the regulation requires the published material to include the 
name of the author. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: "Had the submitted publications been analyzed under the correct 
evidentiary standard [i.e., preponderance of the evidence], it would have led to no other conclusion than 
that [the Petitioner] should be classified as a Pianist of extraordinary ability." The Petitioner does not 
3 
address the Director's observation that the Petitioner had not submitted circulation data for the 
publications where the published material appeared. The Petitioner emphasizes the 1991 report that called 
Caretas a "major publication." That report, however, cited no source for the assertion, and the Petitioner 
did not otherwise establish that the report is, itself, a sufficiently authoritative source to serve as primary 
evidence that Caretas is a major publication. When the Director specifically asked for circulation figures 
for the submitted articles, the Petitioner instead submitted other published materials, also lacking 
circulation data. 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required evidence and information to establish, by a preponderance 
of the evidence, that the published materials about him appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Evidence of a leading role would establish that the person is (or was) a leader within a distinguished 
organization or establishment or a distinguished division or department thereof. Evidence of a critical 
role would establish that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the activities of the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
Letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or critical role 
can be particularly helpful, so long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or department 
was leading or critical. Id. 
The Petitioner initially stated that he "has performed a critical role in representing the Republic of Pern 
and many other distinguished organizations." Pern' s honorary consul in I I Florida, stated that the 
Petitioner "has participated in several events" and "has represented our country together with other 
extraordinary artists." The letter does not identify any specific events or assert that the Petitioner's role 
was leading or critical role for any identified organization or establishment. 
Letters and promotional materials indicate that the Petitioner performed concerts in conjunction with the 
following events: 
• A 2000 event in sponsored by the in Canada, "on the 
occasion of the I lin Canada"; 
• Thel 12002 "Cultural Activities" of the and 
• I I sponsored by the in Guatemala, in 2003 
Although the Petitioner established that these events took place, or at least received advance promotion, 
the Petitioner did not establish that his role in any of these events was leading or critical for the 
organizations that held the events. The Petitioner submitted letters from officials of sponsoring 
organizations, attesting to the Petitioner's talent but not stating that, or explaining how, the Petitioner's 
roles were leading or critical for the organizations that held the events. 
4 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the evidence submitted with the petition was not sufficient to establish 
that the Petitioner performed in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with 
distinguished reputations. The Director asked for further information about the Petitioner's roles, 
including explanations of how they were leading or critical for the organizations involved. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the director ofl IMusic Program, stating that the 
Petitioner "has been an outstanding teacher" and "has also been coordinator of the tutoring and 
reinforcement system for the students of the musical language courses." named the Petitioner 
"Professor of Academic Excellence" in 2016. The official stated: 
[The Petitioner] met and exceeded the standards required by our school since he dedicated 
himself not only to teaching but also trained himself obtaining the highest qualifications 
to be able to teach our students with cognitive disabilities such as Asperger's and autism. 
Thanks to his commitment, love and passion for this kind of teaching we are able to 
demonstrate that we are an inclusive univer[s]ity. [The Petitioner] has all the skills and 
competencies necessary for superior teaching in the specialty of music, having 
demonstrated ... a high professional level and excellent personal characteristics. 
The Petitioner also submitted letters and other information regarding various concert performances. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the submitted materials "do not describe a leading or 
critical role," and that the official did "not state how [the Petitioner] held a [leading or] critical role 
at his school of employment. What it does show is that he does his job well, but nothing that makes him 
stand out with extraordinary ability." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's characterization of the submitted letters "is incorrect. 
Not one letter used this language that he did his job well." The Petitioner maintains that the letters show 
that he "did in fact have leading and critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations." But 
the letters do not directly assert that the Petitioner performed in leading or critical roles or explain how 
the Petitioner's roles were leading or critical for the organizations or their applicable divisions or 
departments. 
The Petitioner quotes at length from the letter from the director of the Music Program, but does not 
show that the quoted language demonstrates the Petitioner's leading or critical role. The assertion that 
the Petitioner "met and exceeded the standards required by our school" attests to the quality of the 
Petitioner's work, which is not the same as a leading or critical role. The quoted passage ends with the 
sentence: "Thanks to his commitment, love and passion for this kind of teaching we are able to 
demonstrate that we are an inclusive univer[s]ity." This general praise for the Petitioner's dedication to 
his work does not point to a specific role or show how it is leading or critical for 
The Petitioner submitted evidence regarding I Iaccreditation by the Western Association of Schools 
and Colleges Senior College and University Commission. The Petitioner did not establish that regional 
accreditation is evidence of a distinguished reputation. Statements from a official about the 
significance of that accreditation do not suffice in this regard. Furthermore, the submitted evidence does 
not establish thatl !Music Program has a distinguished reputation in its own right. 
5 
The Petitioner notes that he had previously "submitted a letter from the Chairman Emeritus ... of the 
I lwhich "offers residential support and services, so that people with 
disabilities may live independently." The Petitioner does not say how this letter established his leading 
or critical role for the Center. The letter in question was to thank the Petitioner "for agreeing to participate 
in [a] fund raising event" "at the I I2023 in I I The 
Petitioner also asserts, without citing supporting evidence, that "[t]hel I is one of the finest 
performing arts centers in the nation." The letter does not say, and the Petitioner does not explain, how a 
single concert performance amounted to a leading or critical role for either the I or for the venue that hosted the fundraiser. Furthermore, the event in question was scheduled for 
I 2023, nearly a year and a half after the petition's filing date. Therefore, this performance could 
not establish eligibility at the time of filing. Even then, the materials the Petitioner submitted all date 
from before the scheduled performance date, and therefore they do not establish that the performance 
occurred. 
The Petitioner states that he "also presented letters from distinguished musicians in the United States and 
in Peru attesting to his extraordinary abilities and critical role for performances internationally." The 
Petitioner does not identify or quote from any of these letters to show that they refer to critical roles as 
claimed on appeal. Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not 
entitled to any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). 
Letters in the record praise the Petitioner's performance at several concerts, but do not assert that, or 
explain how, those performances amounted to leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments 
with distinguished reputations. The Petitioner has not established that performing onstage as a soloist or 
featured performer is inherently a leading or critical role for either the organization that held the 
performance or for the venue where the performance took place. 
The Petitioner has not established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he meets this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner newly claims a further criterion, relating to evidence of the display of the 
individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The 
Petitioner did not claim to have satisfied this criterion until he filed the appeal. The purpose of an appeal 
is to identify, specifically, erroneous conclusions of law or statements of fact. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(v). Because the Petitioner had never previously claimed to have satisfied this criterion, the 
Director did not discuss the criterion in the denial notice and cannot have erred with respect to it. 
Furthermore, even if the Petitioner had claimed this criterion before the Director denied the petition, the 
Petitioner has not shown that he meets at least two other criteria, and therefore discussion of this newly­
claimed criterion would not change the outcome of the appeal. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 
25-26 (1976) (stating that federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
6 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of letters and promotional materials calling him "world 
renowned," but these materials are not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner has, in fact, earned such a 
level of acclaim. The Petitioner has documented a small number of concert performances, but has not 
established that these performances have received the attention typically afforded to appearances by 
acclaimed musicians at the top ofthe field. We also acknowledge the 1991 report calling Caretas a major 
publication, but the Petitioner was eight years old when the article appeared in that magazine, with no 
indication that he had performed or earned recognition outside of The subsequent media coverage 
documented in the record appears to be predominantly local, and the employment prospects documented 
in the record involve restaurants and a training center. Letters in the record include high praise for the 
Petitioner's skills as a pianist, but the record does not establish the national or international acclaim that 
the statute demands. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 14, 2024 In Re: 32370000 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a producer in the entertainment industry whose body of work includes production 
credits for commercial and social media campaigns as well as television and film projects. She is 
currently the head of production at an internationally known advertising agency and intends to 
continue her work for al -based company that has offered her a position with its branch in 
I I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one I of the criteria she claimed to have satisfied: 
the display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The 
record supports that determination. However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not establish 
that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (viii), (ix), or (x). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), (vii), (viii), (ix), and (x), 
and she contends that the Director incorrectly evaluated supporting evidence. Upon review, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (vii), and (viii). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of awards that she has received as part of production teams for 
numerous advertising campaigns, including for her work with 
I I as well as for projects with brands such asl I 
andl I The record includes information from the awards organizations and from objective 
media sources concerning previous winners and judging criteria, and in denying the petition, the 
Director generally acknowledged the evidence submitted. However, the Director then concluded, 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner references the Director's discussion ofwhether she met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
which concludes by stating. "As such. the submitted evidence meets this criterion." Based on our review of the decision 
it appears the Director's concluding sentence erroneously excludes "not"-i.e., it was intended to read, "the submitted 
evidence does not establish ...." Because the denial discusses what was requested in the request for evidence and states, 
"The evidence does not demonstrate the major significance of the [Petitioner's] original contributions," we conclude that 
the Director made a harmless error which has no negative impact in the adjudication of this appeal. See generally Matter 
ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,350 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing cases regarding harmless or scrivener's errors). 
2 
without analysis, that "the evidence is insufficient to ascertain that the awards or prizes are nationally 
recognized or internationally recognized." The Director did not provide an explanation for concluding 
that none ofthe awards were nationally or internationally recognized. On remand, the Director should 
fully evaluate all evidence related to the Petitioner's awards when conducting a final merits analysis. 
Documentation of the individuals membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner does not dispute the Director's conclusion regarding this criterion on appeal. Therefore, 
we deem this issue to be waived, and we will not address this criterion further. See, e.g. , Matter ofM­
A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. at 767 n.2. 
Evidence ofthe individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As one example of her original business-related contributions of major significance to the field of 
advertising, the Petitioner submitted a letter from Turkey's president of Cinema and Broadcasting 
Union. The letter describes the exclusion of individuals employed within her field from protections 
provided to others in the entertainment industry working in television and film and her efforts to 
address this disparity: 
[The Petitioner 1s a v1s10na leader who co-founded and currently serves as Vice­
Chairman for ... which was recently incorporated into the 
thanks to her monumental efforts in pursuit of artists' 
rights. Her relentless dedication and tireless work have resulted in the incorporation of 
the I Iinto the __________ marking a pivotal 
milestone in the representation of artistic and technical personnel in commercials, 
advertisements, and visual marketing in Turkey. 
[The Petitioner] , like numerous peers in the advertising industry, endured years of 
sleepless days, [as well as] weeks and months devoid of overtime pay, expense 
reimbursement, health insurance, and effective legal recourse. This absurdity stemmed 
from an equally absurd Turkish law barring advertisers from unionizing based on the 
classification of the medium in which they work. The archaic legislation failed to 
evolve alongside technological advancements in media and digital communications, 
rendering multi-platform and multi-media advertisers unable to seek unionization as 
value contributors. In essence, [the Petitioner] could seek union rights for her 
production work in feature films, while the thousands of commercials and 
advertisements she produced were ineligible for action, despite their comparable 
significance. 
3 
In her unwavering commitment to justice, [the Petitioner] challenges this outdated 
Turkish law, advocating for the rights of advertisers, and aligning herself with the well­
being of those she employs and engages daily. The report 
revealed alarming figures, indicating that 70% of advertisement professionals were 
forced to leave their positions due to sub-standard working conditions, highlighting the 
urgency of her mission. 
Under [the Petitioner's] executive leadership, the subsequently 
initiated comprehensive reports highlighting advertisers' staggering contributions to 
the struggling Turkish economy. Validated by the government's statistical collations 
office, advertisers contribute a remarkable $120 billion annually to Turkey, 
establishing then as a beacon of extraordinary fiscal wealth amid a declining national 
economy, uncontrollable inflation rates, and exponential living costs. 
Furthermore, the platform's reports have focused on comprehensive figures concerning 
basic pay and employee rights. [The Petitioner's] dedication extends beyond her 
professional achievements. Her proactive involvement and leadership have 
empowered countless professionals within the industry. Her commitment to addressing 
the needs and concerns of workers epitomizes her character and unwavering values. 
The record includes articles from objective media sources to corroborate this letter. The Director's 
denial, however, only generally references the evidence of record as "[d]ocumentation about various 
projects," "[a]cknowledgments," and "[i]nternet printouts," concluding that the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence to meet the criterion in a request for evidence, which similarly did not address specific 
evidence initially submitted. Upon review, given the detailed evidence of the significant impact of 
the Petitioner's efforts to establish a more equitable working environment within her field, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has met the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director's decision that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
generally acknowledges her submission of "[l]etters of support," "[d]ocumentation about projects" 
and [d]ocumentation about companies." The Director claims that the Petitioner has not established 
that the companies for whom she has performed leading and critical roles are "distinguished as marked 
by eminence, distinction, or excellence" because the evidence "did not establish that there [sic] awards 
or achievements which [sic] are indicative of the distinguished reputation of the organization or 
establishment." We note that the plain language of the criterion does not require that the organization 
or establishment in question have received any awards. In addition, the submitted evidence includes 
substantive information concerning the respected reputation of a sizable entity in the advertising 
industry _________ for whom the Petitioner has served in leading and critical 
4 
roles as head of production for world renown clients. Letters of recommendation detail her 
contributions to the development of successful ad campaigns and the awards those campaigns 
garnered. For example, a letter from the chief executive officer at _________ provides 
the following (quoted as written): 
_ engaged I I in 2017 prior to its launch in Turkey. Being a relatively 
new platform entering into a television market rich with stories, depth, and storytelling 
expertise,! Ihad significant concerns of penetrating the Turkish market, wherein 
cultural norms and idiosyncrasies in television series prevailed. I Iin other words, 
needed a local edge for its very first social media and new media campaigns. 
[The Petitioner] produced all I I new media and social media campaigns, 
advertisements, and videos entitled! Iwhich catapulted the previously-
unknownl Ibrand into the talk ofthe country overnight. These promotional series 
focused on the art of Ebru, painting on water, wherein Ebru artists painted on water the 
images of I I most iconic shows such that I I and 
I I The videos were posted onl Iaccounts across platforms and swooped the 
in 2017. [The Petitioner's] project 
specifically won for Best Social Media Campaign, Most Creative Content Strategy, and 
Best Digital Series Video. In thel Iin 2017, [the Petitioner's] work won 
for Best Digital Art Direction, best Illustrative Representation, Best Digital Public 
Relations Campaign, Best Social Media Campaign, Best Branded Film Content, and 
Best Online Film Content. 
This letter includes discussion of several other campaigns that the Petitioner successfully led, 
including one in which _________ __,engaged the company on a project highlighting 
imprisoned journalists in Turkey. The letter explains the campaign as follows (quoted as written): 
Under the creative direction and leadership of the Petitioner, the campaign, with the 
hash tag ________ was quoted 19,000 times, created over 1.2 million 
impressions, and reached an audience of 3 million in Turkey. That [the Petitioner's] 
production was directly viewed by 3% of the entire population of Turkey, and 
considering the fact that this was a social responsibility campaign, the numbers are 
beyond staggering however you look at it. [The Petitioner] prepared a produced the 
campaign in anticipation of 2018 _________ to bring alight structural, 
political, categorical, and punitive issues surrounding press freedom in Turkey, which, 
to this day, remains a prominent problem towards which _______ is 
devoting significant resources. Turkey is among the most repressive countries in the 
world when it comes to freedom of the press and indeed boasts, regrettably, the most 
jailed journalists in the developed and developing world. Through [the Petitioner's] 
campaign, _______ was able to reach a formidable audience in hopes to 
bring awareness to, and further to cure the oppressive journalistic practices employed 
by the current political administration in Turkey. 
The campaign was so effective in terms of its production values that, among highly 
respectable others, it won thel in the Print and Publishing Category at the 
5 
at the festival's 65th annual edition'--==------------------' in 2018. Of over 1,440 submissions made in this category alone, [the Petitioner's] 
campaign, I Iwas singled out as the social responsibility campaign. This 
brought a level of recognition to I Ithat was beyond our 
imagination, and thankfully so. 
[The Petitioner's] role in this campaign, as Head of Production, pulverised I 
I I efforts on the issue thanks to her artistic and commercial contributions 
not limited to the curation of the message, use of the script, and various critical 
production elements. The campaign was pulled from circulation because, individuals 
who advocated for the free press, and individuals who worked directly on the campaign, 
began to be arrested and detained on conspiracy charges by the Turkish government. 
Some journalists who digitally shared [the Petitioner's] campaign and advocated for its 
message remain in prison, which, again, underscores the impact [the Petitioner] has had 
on a national political scale. 
These represent only two of many examples in the record pertaining to the Petitioner's leading and 
critical roles for an organization having a distinguished reputation. We conclude that the Petitioner 
has submitted sufficient evidence that meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the requisite three often initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
(vii), and (viii). We therefore need not consider whether she met additional claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), or (x). 
We will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. The Director may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new determination and any other issues. As such, we express no opinion regarding the ultimate 
resolution of this matter on remand. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of her field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 15, 2024 In Re: 32495743 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a taekwondo instructor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a major, internationally recognized award or that he meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a taekwondo athlete, referee, and instructor who has received several medals as a 
competitor in tournaments since 2009. He intends to continue working as a referee and instructor in 
the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others in 
his field. We agree with the Director's determination for this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally and internationally 
recognized awards, membership in associations requiring outstanding achievement, and published 
material about him and his work in the field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
conclude that he does not meet at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
We note that in his initial filing as well as when responding to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), the Petitioner described his field of endeavor as taekwondo, while listing his proposed 
employment as "taekwondo master instructor and school owner" on Form I-140, Immigrant Petition 
for Alien Workers. Much of the evidence in the record pertains to his career as an athlete, with a 
comparatively smaller portion evidencing his activities as a taekwondo instructor and a referee. 
However, competitive athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in general are not in 
the same area of expertise. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. Where, as in this case, a petitioner has been coaching for an extended period of time, we will 
place the heaviest weight on evidence relating to their achievements as a coach. Id. 
2 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have received prizes or awards, which were 
granted for excellence in their field of endeavor, and that the prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in their field of endeavor. Here, the Petitioner submitted certificates, 
photographs of himself receiving medals at competitions, and letters from the Nepal Olympic 
Committee and other organizations which demonstrate that he received several gold, silver, and bronze 
medals as a taekwondo athlete. 
The Director concluded in her decision that the record lacked clear pictures of the medals claimed to 
have been received by the Petitioner, and so was insufficient to verify that he actually received them. 
But the plain language of this criterion calls for documentation of awards received without requiring 
a particular type of evidence, and in this case the certificates, photographs, and verifying letters from 
several organizations together are sufficient to show that the Petitioner received the awards he claims. 1 
The letters mentioned above describe some ofthe taekwondo events at which the Petitioner competed. 
For example, a letter from the K-I-T-C- indicates that he won two gold medals at tournaments 
organized by this association, and that the tournaments included over 600 and 362 international 
competitors, respectively, in 2019 and 2020. Although these figures show that those tournaments did 
not limit the competitors in number or nationality to the extent that the excellence of the competitors 
was reduced, the fact that competitors from different countries competed at the tournaments does not 
establish that the awards granted were internationally recognized. The record does not include 
evidence showing the prestige or importance of these and other tournaments in which the Petitioner 
medaled within the field of taekwondo, particularly within the framework of top-level international 
competition, or that the awards granted received attention or recognition within the field at the national 
or international level. We further note that the Petitioner does not differentiate in his brief between 
the recognition afforded to awards he received at locally organized tournaments versus those from 
tournaments organized by or between national associations. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner references a letter from the dojang in Nepal where he worked as an 
instructor which states that the students trained by the Petitioner "won the most gold medals and silver 
medals among other school competitors." However, this criterion requires evidence ofthe Petitioner's 
receipt of prizes or awards, not those he instructed, and the evidence does not indicate that he was 
awarded for the success of his students. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he 
meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
1 The Petitioner also provides clear pictures of his medals with his appeal. 
3 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they are a member in an association, that the 
association is in their field of endeavor, that it requires outstanding achievements of its members, and 
that the requirement for outstanding achievements is judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields. 
The Director noted in her decision that the record includes photocopies of several identification cards 
which show the Petitioner's membership in taekwondo associations, as well as his promotion to the 
fourth and fifth dan taekwondo levels. 2 But the Director concluded that the record did not establish 
that these associations require outstanding achievements of their members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to a letter from the Nepal Taekwondo Association (NTA) that his 
receipt of the fifth dan black belt "is internationally recognized and signifies a high degree of 
proficiency and expertise." When making a determination under this criterion, we look to evidence 
of the requirements for the level of a petitioner's membership. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(A)(2), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Although the Petitioner has established his membership in 
the NT A, the record does not show that his taekwondo dan is equivalent to his level of membership in 
that association, especially considering that the dan was awarded by a different association, the World 
Taekwondo Headquarters (WTH). The record does not sufficiently document the levels of 
membership in the NT A or the WTH, or the requirements for those levels of membership. 
The Petitioner also references a letter from the USA Masters Team which states that he has been a 
"supporting member" since 2021. While the letter speaks of the Petitioner's activities, qualifications, 
and personal character, it provides no information regarding the membership requirements for a 
supporting member. 
Per the above, the Petitioner has not established that any of the associations for which he provided 
evidence of membership require outstanding achievements for his level of membership. He has 
therefore not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence of published material that is about them and 
relates to their work in their field of endeavor. The material must include the title, date, and author 
information, and must be published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
medium. Also, in compliance with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), materials in a foreign 
language must be accompanied by a certified English translation. 
2 We note that the Petitioner achieved the fifth dan after the filing of his petition. Eligibility must be established at the time 
of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l ), (12); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971 ). A petition cannot 
be approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter ofIzummi. 22 I&N Dec. 
169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter ofBardouille. 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981), further provides that 
USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. We will 
therefore not consider this evidence on appeal. 
4 
The Petitioner submitted several articles from newspapers and websites based in Nepal, some ofwhich 
are about him and his career in taekwondo and others which did not mention him or only reported the 
results of competitions. In her decision, the Director concluded that the submitted evidence did not 
meet several of the elements of this criterion. Specifically, she noted that articles published in media 
the Petitioner identified as Annapurna Post, Annapurna National Daily and www.nepalmala.com did 
not include the names of the authors, and that the letter from the editor of Annapurna Post Daily 
concerning the circulation of Annapurna National Daily was insufficient to establish that it was a 
qualifying medium under this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the missing author information for any of the published 
materials submitted. He also does not contest that any of the media in which the articles about him 
were published are professional or major trade publications or other major media, except for the 
Annapurna Post. The Petitioner first refers to the editor's letter noted above, but we note that there 
are inconsistencies regarding which media are referred to in that letter. The editor begins the letter by 
stating that he writes on behalf of the Annapurna National Daily, a newspaper which he states has a 
daily circulation of 225,000. He then goes on to list five articles which he states appeared in the 
newspaper, all in 2022. But two of these are described by the Petitioner as having been published in 
the Annapurna Post, and in four of the articles the website address www.annapurnapost.com appears 
in the page header. Further, the writer of the letter lists his title below his signature as Chief Editor, 
Annapurna Post Daily, which appears to be an amalgam of the names of the two newspapers. The 
Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). As neither the 
editor's letter nor the Petitioner explains any relationship between these two newspapers, it is not 
apparent to which of them the circulation figures stated by the editor apply. 
In addition, the Director concluded that the circulation figures alone were insufficient to establish that 
the newspapers qualified as major media. On appeal, the Petitioner submits new evidence from 
www.wikipedia.org about the Annapurna Post. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice of 
a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 
(BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). The Petitioner was notified of the 
types of evidence which could be submitted in support of this criterion in the Director's RFE, and was 
given the maximum allowable period to respond with additional evidence. 
For all of the reasons given above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed 
the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in his field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 15, 2024 In Re: 31936541 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, as the co-founder and head of 
engineering of an information technology development firm. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the required initial evidentiary criteria, he did not demonstrate that he enjoys 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he is among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). While we conduct de novo review on 
appeal, Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015), we conclude that a remand 
is warranted in this case because the Director's decision is insufficient for review. Specifically, the 
decision lacks analysis and discussion of the evidence in the record with respect to the Petitioner's 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics as demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such 
as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur engaged as the co-founder and head of engineering for a firm that 
specializes in the strategic management and development of cloud networks, distributed computing 
strategies, data analytics, and artificial intelligence (AI) business intelligence technologies (the 
Petitioner's technological areas of interest). He intends to continue working for his current employer 
or elsewhere in a similar capacity should this petition be approved. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner filed this petition on September 11, 2023, and must established his eligibility for 
this highly restrictive visa classification as of that date. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The Petitioner claims 
throughout this proceeding that he satisfies six of these criteria: 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media (published 
material) 
• (iv), participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field of 
specification for which classification is sought (judging) 
• (v), original contributions of major significance in the field (original major 
contributions) 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media (scholarly articles) 
• (viii), Performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments with a 
distinguished reputation (leading or critical role) 
• (ix), Commanded a high salary or other significant high remuneration for services, in 
relation to others in the field (high salary) 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met the plain language 
requirements of four of these criteria, (judging, scholarly articles, leading or critical role, and high 
salary), he did not meet the other two criteria (published material, original major contributions). The 
2 
Director also concluded the record did not show the Petitioner warranted favorable consideration in a 
final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts among other things, that the Director failed to evaluate all the relevant 
evidence in determining that he did not warrant favorable consideration in the final merits 
determination. He alleges that the Director ignored "key details" offered in the submitted evidence. 
A decision denying a benefit must include the specific reasons for denial and sufficiently explain the 
underlying deficiencies to allow a petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us 
an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See, e.g., Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must be clear to allow the affected party a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). For the following reasons, we 
agree with the Petitioner that the Director's decision is deficient. 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner explained that he was "a 
leading technologist/engineer and entrepreneur [who] has made original impactfol contributions to 
[the Petitioner's technological areas of interest]," noting: 
• [He] has been the co-founder & head of engineering at [N-], a company that has 
attracted over $17.5 million in fonding while also revolutionizing the product 
analytics field with its proprietary AI-enhanced business intelligence 
platform/product that [the Petitioner] strategically managed the development of. 
• Before co-founding [N-], [he] was already highly regarded for his contributions as the 
founding engineer at the high-tech company [T-] where he helped build this 
company's technological platform and is listed as an inventor on multiple patents. 
• Prior to working for [T-], [he] worked as a software engineer for [G-] on [its] front 
end (GFE) team where he contributed to the initial implementation of [G-'s] QUIC 
protocol, technologies that laid the groundwork for http3. 
The Petitioner provided detailed exhibit listings that referenced the evidence submitted to substantiate 
the significance of his managerial accomplishments and technical innovations, initially, in response to 
the RFE, ( and in the appeal brief). 
The Director concluded, among other things, in the denial: 
The Petitioner provided letters praising the work he has done for two employers. These 
letters came from co-workers or clients of these companies. The Petitioner did not 
provide any evidence suggesting that he is well known outside his existing corporate 
relationships. He did not provide any evidence suggesting that he is well-known in his 
field as a result of the work he had done with these employers. 
The Petitioner has provided evidence showing a working engineer who has been lucky 
enough to be associated with two startups that have garnered venture capital fonding. 
The fundamental nature of this highly restrictive visa classification demands 
comparison between the petitioner and others in the field. The regulatory criteria 
3 
describe types of evidence that one may submit, but it does not follow that every 
engineer who has secured a patent or who has earned the respect of his colleagues is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
When users provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it 
will not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it 
to address every piece of evidence the Petitioner presents. Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 119, 123 
(1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 973,976 (1st Cir.1992); see also Kazemzadeh v. US. 
Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 2009); Casalena v. US. INS, 984 F.2d 105, 107 (4th Cir. 
1993). Here, the conclusory statements offered by the Director as reasons for denying the final merits 
aspect of the petition, such as the passages from the denial quoted above, do not provide a sufficient 
reasoned consideration to the petition, or make adequate findings, based on the evidence submitted. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(i). 
Although the Director briefly mentioned and discussed some of the types of evidence submitted by 
the Petitioner in their final merits determination, and concluded that they were insufficient, the 
decision does not adequately explain why the Petitioner's evidence was deficient to support his claim 
that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. 
We withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and entry of a new 
decision. Because the Director determined the Petitioner has established his qualifications under at 
least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), on remand, the Director should conduct a final merits 
review of the evidence of record. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for the handful of individuals at the top of their respective fields. users has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 r&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated by 
Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate the required sustained national or international acclaim, 
consistent with a "career ofacclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); 
see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21035246 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant pathologist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through 
evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner received her Ph.D. in plant pathology from the University I I in 2006, and has 
focused her research in the _____________ tropical fruits including pineapples 
and bananas. She submitted evidence showing her intentto continue working in her field in the United 
States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles and participation as a 
judge of the work of others. On appeal, she asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating 
to her original contributions of major significance to the field.1 After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we find that the Petitioner has not met the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested 
classification and is therefore not eligible as a noncitizen of extraordinary ability. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in 
1 The Petitioner does not contesttheDirector's decision regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3)(ii) relating to her 
membership in associations in the field which require outstandingachievementoftheirmembers. We therefore consider 
this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 40 I F.3d 1226, 1228n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristovv. Roark, 
No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30,2011) (the cou1ifound the plaintiff's claims to be 
abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The record shows that the Petitioner is named as one oOinventors on a United States patent, I granted in2014, relating to the development of a I lbanana plant. As noted by the Director in his decision, this evidence 
establishes that she has made an original contribution to her field of expertise. But the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) also demands that contributions be of major significance, which in the case 
of inventions should be supported by evidence of adoption by at least one industry actor outside of 1he 
petitioner's employer. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383 (2022)(citing Visinscaia, 4 F.Supp. 3d at 126.) 
In responding to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided evidence of the I land its effect upon the global banana industry, but 
stated that the patent was not in use due to "the cost associated with purchasing and using the patent 
and lack of acceptance by the general public." The Director noted this statement in his decision, 
concluding that "the potential significance of a contribution does not meet the plain language 
requirement of this criterion." 
On appeal, the Petitioner stresses that the atent is a "solution to to Banana crops" and 
"was proven scientifically to and is therefore of major 
significance even without evidence ofadoption or commercialization. However, she has not submitted 
evidence of any actual impact that this research has had on other researchers in her field or on the 
banana industry. The Petitioner also argues that the patent "took years of research and breakthroughs 
in but the evidence in the record does not support her claim that this work is 
considered to be a breakthrough by others in the field of plant pathology, or that it influenced or was 
relied upon by other researchers in the field. Although she submitted reference letters from colleagues 
at the University ofl I all of them predate her work related to the patent, and she did not present 
evidence that her patent generated widespread interest amongst other researchers. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the provision at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) for the submission 
of evidence comparable to that contemplated in the evidentiary criteria "leaves open discretion if or 
when there are grey areas in determining eligibility for benefit sought," and that per that provision 
we may "treat the patent as a criterion." However, as noted above, that provision requires that the 
Petitioner establish that the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to 
his occupation. She does not make such a claim on appeal, and has already demonstrated by 
submitting her patent and other documentation in support of this criterion that it does apply to her 
occupation. As such, she has not established that her patent should be considered as comparable 
evidence of her eligibility for this classification. 
After review of the Petitioner's appeal and the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director and 
conclude that she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
3 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes perf orming at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section203(b )(l)(A) oftheActand 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above statedreasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2023 In Re: 28048571 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification 
through evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a journalist who has written 
and edited for a women's magazine in her native Nepal 
for several years. She states that she will continue working as a journalist, editor, and media consultant 
in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets 
nine of the evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner does not meet at least three of the criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidence 
requirement as an individual of extraordinary ability. 1 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Under this criterion, if an individual submits evidence showing that they have received a prize or 
award, they must then establish that the award was given to recognize excellence in the individual's 
field of endeavor, and that the award itself is nationally or internationally recognized in that field. 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of theIaward in 2015, issued by the nongovernmental organization Women A._c_t_,b_u_t_c_o_n_c-lu_d_e_d_t_h-at_. 
the evidence did not show that this award is nationally or internationally recognized. On appeal, the 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles. 
but states on appeal that she is no longer claiming this criterion. Accordingly, we will consider this issue to be waived. 
2 I 
Petitioner takes issue with the Director's statement regarding the lack of evidence of media coverage 
of the award, asserting that he added a novel evidentiary requirement to the plain language of the 
regulation. However, the Director did not indicate that evidence ofmedia coverage was a requirement 
under this criterion, but appropriately used the lack of such evidence in the record as an example of 
how the Petitioner had not established that this award is nationally or internationally recognized in her 
field. 
The Petitioner asserts that a letter from the President of the Nepal Press Union (NPU) sufficiently 
demonstrates this award's national recognition. But we note that this letter, dated July 10, 2022, is nearly 
identical to an initially submitted letter dated January 2, 2019, but signed by a different individual as 
President of the NPU. The ony other difference between these two letters is that while the former refers 
to thel Award" 2015 from Women Actin [sic] 2015," the latter names the award 
asl Ifrom Nepal Press Union in 2015." As a general concept, when a petitioner 
has provided affidavits from different persons that contribute to the eligibility claim, but the language and 
structure contained within the affidavits is notably similar, the trier of fact may treat those similarities as 
a basis for questioning a petitioner's claims. 2 When affidavits contain such similarities, it is reasonable to 
infer that the petitioner who submitted the notably similar documents is the actual source from where the 
suspicious similarities derive. Cf Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. ofJustice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007); 
Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d 587, 592 (6th Cir. 2016). As a result, the probative value of these letters is 
significantly undermined. 
In addition, the descriptions of the justifications and process pertaining to the claimed NPU award in the 
2019 letter do not pertain to the Women Act award. For example, the 2022 letter describes the award as 
being "given each year," but the certificate and the Petitioner's briefboth describe the award from Women 
Act as biennial. Further, the 2022 letter misnames the award given to the Petitioner, which the certificate 
states is the.__ ___________ __..-ward." The Petitioner must resolve these discrepancies in 
the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Another letter highlighted on appeal, from an official of Women Act, states that the 2015 award is 
"the highest honor to a woman journalist," and was given to the Petitioner for her "significant 
involvement, contribution, and role of a facilitator throughout the various interaction programs with 
Members of Parliament and other associated stakeholders." However, this statement from the issuing 
organization is not sufficient to show that the award is recognized in the field ofjournalism outside of 
that organization on a broader, national basis. Despite the presence of letters from other individuals 
in the record which mention the Petitioner's receipt of this award, the record lacks contemporaneous 
evidence of national or international recognition in the field. 
The record also includes evidence of other awards received by the Petitioner, including a certificate 
from her employer"--_______ __, In addition, several letters reference the 2015 award from 
the NPU, but we note that they provide different titles for this award, and the record lacks any evidence 
2 See Matter ofR-K-K-. 26 I&N Dec. 658, 665 (BIA 2015); Singh v. Garland. No. 19-60937, 2021 WL 5984797, at *2 
(5th Cir. Dec. 17. 2021); Surinder Singh v. Board ofImmigration Appeals. 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006); Wang v. 
Lynch. 824 F.3d 587. 592 (6th Cir. 2016); Dehonzai v. Holder. 650 F.3d 1, 8 (1st Cir. 2011); Hamal v. U.S. Dep't of 
Homeland Security, No. 19-2534, WL 2338316, at *4, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). 
3 
of a certificate, plaque, trophy, or other indication that she received this award. The record does not 
show that any of these awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and we note that the 
Petitioner does not so assert on appeal. After review of the totality of the evidence relating to prizes 
and awards in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In his decision, the Director acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's membership in the 
Federation of Nepali Journalists (FNJ) and the NPU, but concluded that the record did not show that 
either association requires outstanding achievements of its members. On appeal, the Petitioner 
provides an updated page from FNJ's website, indicating that it now has more than 13,000 members, 
and refers to the previously submitted 2014 article from [ lwhich names her as one 
of 22 members elected as central representatives. While she stresses that she is "not an ordinary 
member," she does not elaborate on the requirements or process for election as a central representative, 
nor does she point to evidence that central representatives are required to have outstanding 
achievements. And although the Petitioner reminds that she is also a member of NPU, she does not 
argue that the Director was in error in determining that her membership in this association also does 
not require outstanding achievements. Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the.fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence ofpublished material about them and relating 
to their work in their field. In addition, they must show that the material was published in a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media, and that it includes the required 
identifying information. 
The Director determined that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion did not meet its 
requirements because some of the articles did not identify an author, others were written by the 
Petitioner, and others~ared to be marketing materials.3 On appeal, the Petitioner focuses on 
articles she wrote forl__J magazine, and refers to evidence of the magazine's prominence in the 
Nepali market. However, as noted by the Director, these articles are her work product, and despite 
her claims on appeal, are not about her, as she is mentioned only in the heading as the author or co­
author. While articles need not focus solely on a petitioner in order to be about them, they should 
include a substantial discussion of the petitioner's work in the field and mention them in connection 
3 Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the petitioner's products or promoting their services are not 
generally considered to be published material about the petitioner. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2, Appendices 
tab. 
4 
with that work. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices tab. www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. The articles published inc=]lack such a discussion, and thus do not qualify under this 
criterion. In addition, the articles published in other publications that are about the Petitioner and her 
work lack author information and were not shown to have been published in one of the qualifying 
types of media. As such, we agree with the Director and conclude that the Petitioner does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this crierion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that the contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that that the evidence of her contributions to ~ and its publisher, 
~-------~are original and ofmajor significance. A letter from the editor ofthe magazine 
states that she has played an important role for several years in "planning stories, strategizing the way 
forward, networking, marketing, and ensuring its commercial success." He also writes that she served 
asl lonline coordinator, pushing management towards digitization. While the Petitioner's efforts 
may have been important to her employer, this evidence does not establish that they were either 
original or remarkably influenced the field ofjournalism. The 2019 letter from the president ofNPU, 
discussed above, states that in leading Nari online, she "set the standard for online presence for other 
media houses as well." But the record lacks documentary evidence showing that she broke new ground 
in the field ofjournalism through her efforts, or that other magazines or publishers implemented their 
own online presence based on a model developed by the Petitioner. For these reasons, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salwy or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support ofher claim to this criterion, the Petitioner points to two letters from businesses stating that 
they employed her as a media advisor, one dated 2014 stating that she was paid Rs. 40,000 per month, 
and another from 2016 stating that she was paid Rs. 55,000 per month. She also refers to an October 
7, 2018 article inl Iwhich states that the minimum wage for a journalist is Rs. 
19,500 per month. We first note that the letters do not specify the Petitioner's duties as a media 
advisor, and thus do not demonstrate that a comparison to the salary of a journalist is meaningful to 
show that the Petitioner's salary was high in relation to others in her field. While the record indicates 
that she was employed as a journalist and editor at the time, the record lacks evidence ofthe salary she 
received in this role. 
In addition, even ifthe record did include evidence ofthe Petitioner's salary as a journalist and editor, 
the article provides information about only the minimum salary for a journalist. As the record lacks 
evidence of the full range of salaries paid to both journalists and editors, it is insufficient to 
5 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's salary is high in relation to others performing the same duties. As 
such, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner raises a claim to this criterion for the first time on appeal, and refers to no supporting 
evidence of the type specifically called for in the record. We further note that this criterion applies 
specifically to successes in the performing arts, and the Petitioner's work as a journalist, editor, and 
media consultant is not in the performing arts. She does not meet the plain language of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Although she claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating 
to her participation as a judge of the work of others in her field and her leading or critical role for 
organizations having a distinguished reputation, we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.4 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamashad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2023 In Re: 27693596 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recogrnt1on of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial arts athlete who has competed in muay thai, kickboxing, and mixed martial 
arts (MMA) tournaments. He intends to continue to compete as a martial arts athlete in the United 
States. 
A. One-Time Achievement 
The INA does not define what constitutes a major, international award, but the Nobel Prize was 
specifically cited as an example in Congressional debates leading to the statute's passage. See H.R. 
Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. 
We note that the selection of Nobel Laureates is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. Other awards which enjoy similar international recognition as top awards for those in a 
particular field include, but are not limited to, the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and Olympic 
medals. 
The Petitioner contends that he won championships at the 2013 I International 
Championship, the 20141 !Championship (Thailand), as well as at the 20141 ID Championship an~ IChampionship, both also in Thailand. As evidence of his receipt 
of these awards, he submitted letters from the founder ofthe Muay Thai Federation of Turkey (TMF), 
his coach, and other martial arts athletes, all ofwhom attest to these victories. However, we note that 
none of these individuals claim to have any standing in or relationship with the organization which 
issued these awards, identified in a newspaper article as the Professional Muay Thai Federation (PMF), 
nor do they explain how they acquired their knowledge of the Petitioner's claimed victories. Further, 
while the Petitioner's coach indicates that he was coaching the Petitioner at the time of these 
competitions, and would presumably have attended them with the Petitioner, he does not provide even 
the smallest detail about the Petitioner's victories or even the events, such as the dates on which they 
occurred. As such, these letters lack sufficient authority, credibility, and detail to establish that the 
Petitioner received the claimed awards. 
2 
The Petitioner also submitted photographs of medals and trophies, but did not provide an explanation 
of any of them or associate them with his claimed awards. As noted by the Director, for all of the 
medals and trophies which included a plaque or engraving, that text was in a foreign language. Any 
document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the text on 
these medals and trophies, we cannot meaningfully determine whether they support his claims. 1 
Although not mentioned by the Director or the Petitioner with regard to his claimed awards, the record 
also includes media articles that report on or make reference to the Petitioner's receipt of the claimed 
awards. While the Director noted a minor discrepancy in the certifications accompanying the English 
translations of these articles, we conclude that they are compliant with the requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). One article, published in Millyet Akdeniz Spar in 20142, states that the 
Petitioner won 10 out of 14 matches atl I~sic] Boxing Stadium "thereby achieving a great 
success," and that he competed at thel and "won the championship belt." Another article, 
published a da] earlier in Akdeniz Mansel Spar, also states that he won the championship belt at the I Both articles feature a photograph of the Petitioner wearing a championship belt. 
Despite the concerns about the evidence noted above, these contemporaneous articles and 
accompanying photographs show by a preponderance of the evidence that the Petitioner won the 2014 I I muay thai tournament. 
However, the record includes very little evidence regarding the I I and its standing as a 
major, internationally recognized award. The letters from other athletes mentioned above, such as I I state that this and the other awards claimed by the Petitioner "are extraordinary and 
the most prestigious events that [the Petitioner] has won," while the founder of the TMF calls them 
"very important awards." These statements, even if supported by documentary evidence, do not 
suggest that thel Iis a major, internationally recognized award, but rather that it marks the 
pinnacle of the Petitioner's career. Even the two newspaper articles mentioned above provide scant 
information about the award. Further, regarding the articles and the publications in which they 
appeared, the record does not show that their mentions of theI I constitute international 
recognition. A letter from a journalist with a different Turkish newspaper states that Millyet "is one 
of the top circulating newspapers in Turkey." However, this statement is not supported by circulation 
statistics, and we note that the name of both newspapers includes "Akdeniz," indicating that they are 
local newspapers or local editions of more widely-distributed publications. 3 In addition, there is no 
indication that the Petitioner's victory came with a substantial monetary prize, gave him significant 
points or standing in any sort of international ranking or title scheme, or was recognized more broadly 
at the international level. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award. We will therefore consider whether he meets at 
least three of the alternative evidentiary criteria. 
jI 1 We note Ithat all but one of the medals and trophies which include a place name show cities in Turkey 
with the exception beingl !(Germany). None refer to cities or places in Thailand. .______ _. 
2 The translations did not include the exact date of the publications. 
3 We take administrative notice that Akdeniz is a municipality within the metropolitan center oti lin Turkey. 
3 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any ofthe evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser internationally or nationally recognized 
awards, member of an association requiring outstanding achievements, published material about him 
and his work in his field, and original contributions of major significance to his field. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that he does not meet at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As stated above regarding the Petitioner's claim to having received a major, internationally recognized 
award, the evidence is sufficient to establish that he received the I laward in 2014, but not 
any of the other awards he specifically claims. And given the lack of supporting documentation 
regarding the stature of thel Iaward, the record is insufficient to show that it qualifies as a 
lesser nationally or internationally recognized award. In addition, while the Petitioner submitted 
evidence of medals and trophies which apparently relate to other martial arts tournaments in which he 
competed, the lack of English translations, as well as any explanations or other supporting evidence 
about these awards, renders this evidence of minimal value. As such, we agree with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish their membership in an association in their field, and 
then show that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
~zed experts. Here, the Director determined that the Petitioner is a member ofl I 
L___JTurkey, based upon a letter from the owner, but concluded that this evidence was insufficient 
to show that it required outstanding achievements of its members. The Petitioner does not challenge 
this aspect of the Director's decision on appeal. 
The Director also considered two letters from I I who states that he is the I lof the 
TMF and I I of the European Muaythai Federation (EMF). The letters state that the 
Petitioner is a "prominent member" of the TMF, and that such members must "have national and 
international achievements for very important awards." However, the Director noted that neither of 
these letters included an address for the writer, referring to the requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l) 
pertaining to "evidence relating to qualifying experience or training," and thus gave them little 
evidentiary weight. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "8 C.F.R. Sec. 204.5 does not apply here" as he is a self­
petitioner, and that the letters are "official government document( s )" such that discrediting them was 
inappropriate. To the extent that the Petitioner argues that the specific requirement at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(l) regarding evidence of training and work experience is not applicable to letters 
submitted in support ofthis criterion, we acknowledge that the letters were not submitted as evidence 
of training or work experience. However, we note the lack of additional information in the record 
about the TMF andI I which combined with the missing address information lowers the 
evidentiary value of the letters. As for the Petitioner's claim that these are official government 
documents, there is no indication in the record that TMF is a government agency orl Ia 
government official. Having said that, the Petitioner's athlete "license" issued by the Ministry of 
Youth and Sports, which lists TMF as the federation to which he belongs, lends credence to the claim 
that TMF is officially sanctioned by the Turkish government. 
With the above taken into account, we conclude that while this evidence is sufficient to show that the 
Petitioner is a member of TMF, we agree with the Director that it is insufficient to show that the 
association requires outstanding achievements of its members. Notably, I I description of 
the Petitioner as a "prominent member" does not make clear whether this is recognized as a separate 
membership class with unique admission requirements, or is simply a way to describe members who 
have achieved some level of success and recognition as athletes. Also, his statements that prominent 
members must have "national and international achievements" and "have been recognized nationally 
to be outstanding achievers" parrots the language of the regulation without providing substantive 
membership requirements. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, *5 
(S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). Further, despite the Director's request for sections of the association's 
constitution or bylaws which contain the requirements for membership at all levels, the Petitioner did 
not submit such evidence or explain its absence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also suggests that he is a member of the Turkish national muay thai team, 
despite not having previously made this claim. This appears to be based solely onI I 
statement that he "is our National Athlete for the Republic of Turkey." However, this statement is 
insufficient to show that he is a member of a national team, as it makes no reference to a team at all. 
The record also lacks evidence that the Petitioner has competed internationally as a member of a team 
representing the Republic of Turkey. 
For the reasons provided above, we conclude that the evidence is insufficient to establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating 
to published material about him and his work as a martial arts athlete and his original contributions of 
major significance to the field of martial arts, we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 
5 
204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.4 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who have risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamashad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessmy to the ultimate decision). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2024 In Re: 33303412 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cardiac physiologist , seeks classification under the employment-based, first-
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). Successful 
petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or 
international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. Although finding that the Petitioner 
met the initial evidentiary criteria, the Director's final merits determination concludes that he did not 
establish himself as one ofthat small percentage to rise to his field's very top. On appeal, the Petitioner 
contends that the Director disregarded evidence. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that he has established his receipt of sufficient acclaim and recognition in his field 
to demonstrate extraordinary ability. We will therefore sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" 
or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a 
petitioner meets either standard and all other preliminary requirements, USCIS must then make a final 
merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their 
field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Petitioner 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a native and citizen of India, earned a bachelor of medicine and 
surgery degree in his home country. 2 He then came to the United States to serve a medical residency 
and fellowships at university medical centers. He currently works as a cardiac physiologist for a U.S. 
hospital. He provides patients with cardiac implantable electronic devices (CIEDs), such as permanent 
pacemakers and cardioverter defibrillators. 
Since 2019, the Petitioner has co-authored seven research papers published by peer-reviewed journals 
in his field. His research has generated more than 900 citations from doctors and scientists in 55 
countries. He seeks to permanently continue his research and clinical activities in cardiac physiology 
in the United States. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major international 
recognized award. He therefore had to meet at least three of ten initial evidentiary requirements. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). The record supports the Director's findings that he successfully submitted 
evidence of: 
• His participation as a judge of others' work in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); 
• His original contributions of major significance in his field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); 
and 
• His authorship of scholarly articles in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
As the Petitioner has met the required amount of initial evidentiary criteria, we will next review the 
Director's final merits determination. 
B. The Final Merits Determination 
To establish eligibility, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. Section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act. His level of acclaim and recognition must identify him as one ofthat small 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 Indian bachelor's of medicine and surgery degrees generally equate to U.S. medical degrees. See Am. Assoc. of 
Collegiate Registrars & Admission Officers, Electronic Database of Global Education, www.aacrao.org. 
2 
percentage who have risen to the field's very top. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) (defining the term 
"extraordinary ability"). 
When making a final determination, users considers any potentially relevant evidence of record, 
even ifit does not fit one ofthe initial regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). The Petitioner bears the burden of explaining the 
significance of his evidence and how it demonstrates his achievement of sustained acclaim and 
recognition in his field. Id. The evidence's type and quality determines the petition's approval or 
denial. Id. 
The Director found insufficient evidence that the Petitioner sustained acclaim and recogmt10n 
commensurate with one of that small percentage who has risen to his field's very top. The Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner has "proficiency and promise in the field." But the Director 
concluded that he did not submit "extensive documentation that his efforts have brought him the 
requisite sustained acclaim at a national or international level." 
The Petitioner persuasively argues that the Director overlooked evidence of his acclaim and 
recognition in the field. The Director found that the Petitioner's published research papers do not 
demonstrate his "influence" or the impact of his research on his field. But he submitted evidence 
indicating that his research had global importance. Studies he helped to conduct in 2020 found that 
the anti-malarial drug combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin -then widely used to 
treat eovrD-19 patients -increased the risk of life-threatening heart arrythmias. Letters from experts 
in the field state that his research not only safeguarded eovrD-19 patients but also reduced healthcare 
costs. Major U.S. news media reported that, days after publication of his first study's results, the U.S. 
Food and Drug Administration warned Americans that the anti-malarial drugs could cause heart 
problems. The Director found that the news articles and related documentation did not meet the initial 
evidentiary requirement regarding published material about a petitioner relating to their work in their 
field. See 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). But the articles still demonstrate the urgent, global importance 
ofhis research. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2) (requiring users to consider "any potentially 
relevant evidence in the record, even if such evidence does not fit one of the ... regulatory criteria"). 
The prior year, the Petitioner also worked on a study regarding left ventricular assist devices (L V ADs ), 
which act as pumps for failing hearts of patients with severe pulmonary hypertension. The research 
shows that LA VDs significantly improve these patients' pulmonary artery pressure. An assistant U.S. 
medical professor explained that L V ADs are options for patients with severe pulmonary hypertension 
preventing them from safely receiving heart transplants. The assistant professor, who has never 
worked with the Petitioner, said that the Petitioner's research "ensur[ es] that clinicians are aware of 
available treatment options and, as such, his research advances efforts to improve public health." 
Further, in 2021, the Petitioner first-authored research leading to a general reduction ofdischarge times 
for eIED-implant patients, from 24 hours to six hours after their operations. His research showed that 
90% of eIED-implant patients who developed acute complications developed them within six hours 
of their operations or after 24 hours. A U.S. associate professor of internal medicine, who also has 
never worked with the Petitioner, stated that the Petitioner "holds a unique place in the field, as his 
work has consistently updated current guidelines on clinical management for cardiac disorders." 
3 
The Director also disregarded the Petitioner's citation rate. The Petitioner submitted evidence that the 
number of citations to his research over the past five years places him within the top 1 % of authors in 
the clinical medicine category. "Depending on the field and the comparative data the petitioner 
provides, such evidence may indicate a person's high overall standing for the purpose ofdemonstrating 
that the person is among the small percentage at the top of the field." 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(2). 
Based on these overlooked materials, the Petitioner has demonstrated by a preponderance of the 
evidence that he has received national and international acclaim and recognition of achievements in 
his field that place him among that small percentage who have risen to his field's very top. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2024 In Re: 32825647 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a small business entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1 l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either through his 
receipt of a major internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, by submitting evidence that 
satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States has substantial prospective benefits for the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a two-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also; Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-392 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, who was last admitted to the United States in E-2 nonimmigrant status as a treaty 
investor, is the co-owner and operator of al IColorado-based coffee shop and cafe business 
he acquired in 2012. The Petitioner indicates he intends to continue operating this business if granted 
lawful permanent residence in the United States. He claims eligibility for this classification as a small 
business owner and entrepreneur with extraordinary ability in business. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement. Accordingly, he must submit evidence meeting at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Here, the Director acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted 
evidence relating to five of the ten criteria, but concluded that he did not demonstrate that he meets 
any of them. The Petitioner claimed to meet the criteria summarized below: 
• Receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence, under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); 
• Published materials about him in major media, relating to his work in the field, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii); 
• Judging the work of others in the same or allied field, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv); 
• Original business-related contributions of major significance in the field, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
• Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation; under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted "evidence supporting more than three categories" 
and contends that the Director improperly discounted "virtually every single piece of evidence 
provided." He specifically emphasizes his submission of more than 50 letters of support and asserts 
that the Director's decision was "both discriminatory and prejudicial in nature." However, the 
Petitioner does not address the Director's specific findings with respect to each of the five claimed 
criteria. 
2 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
l. Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In evaluating this criterion, we must first determine whether the person was the recipient of an award 
or prize. Second, we determine whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing evaluation of 
initial evidence extraordinary ability under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field may include: 
the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards 
or prizes in the field; the number of awardees or prize recipients; and limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion based on the following awards: 
• Cafe of the Year, Awards 2023; 
• I IAward 2023; 
• Best Family-Owned Community Coffee Shop 2023 -Colorado, _________ 
Awards; 
• Best Local Coffee Shop 2023 -I ICounty, and 
• A "financial gift" awarded by _____ 1 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet his burden to demonstrate 
that he has been the recipient of national or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence 
in his field of endeavor. 
With respect to the Award, the Petitioner submitted a 
copy of an email from a representative ofthe awarding entity to his business, advising that the business 
had been selected as the winner in the "Cafe of the Year" category. The email states that winners 
would be featured in the _______________ which would be distributed to 
"businesses and professionals around the world" but the Petitioner did not provide a copy ofthis guide 
listing his business as a recipient. The Petitioner also submitted an excerpt from the I I I !website which provides some information regarding the nomination process and indicates 
that this entity has several different awards programs including I !Awards" and I I 
Awards" in addition to the ________ Awards." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that the email notification provided 
insufficient evidence of his company's receipt of the award, and further informed him that the limited 
1 The record also contains evidence that the Petitioner's business received I !awards for Best Atmosphere 
in and Best Cafe in in 2023, as well asl !Awards for the years 2020-
2023. In addition, the Petitioner received an of the Year award in 2018. The Petitioner 
did not pursue his initial claim that these are qualifying awards when responding to the Director's request for evidence and 
has not addressed these awards on appeal. Accordingly, we will not discuss them fmiher in evaluating whether he meets 
the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
information provided from the awarding entity's website did not demonstrate that the award is a 
nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the Petitioner's field. In response, the 
Petitioner stated that "further confirmation" related to the award could not be 
provided but emphasized that the initial evidence was sufficient to demonstrate that the award satisfies 
all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) based on the award. First, as noted, the Petitioner did not provide 
the published list of 2023 _______ __,Award Winners to corroborate the submitted email 
notification regarding its receipt of the award. Further, it is necessary to consider the level of 
recognition the award holds to determine whether it is "nationally or internationally recognized," 
consistent with the requirements of the criterion. I l according to its website, 
appears to be a print and digital magazine with an unknown number of subscribers and readers. While 
its various awards programs appear to accept nominations from anywhere in the world, the limited 
information submitted from the awarding entity's website does not demonstrate that a "Best Cafe 
Award" from this entity is a "nationally or internationally recognized" prize or award for excellence 
in the Petitioner's field. The record does not contain evidence demonstrating the level ofrecognition 
associated with this award, such as, for example, evidence that the award garners any type of media 
coverage, or other evidence that the award is recognized in the field at the level required by the plain 
language of the regulation. 
Regarding the 2023 I I Award, the Petitioner provided a photograph of the trophy awarded to 
his business. The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot from thel !Award website which 
provides a very brief explanation of the awards process, noting that it uses "advanced AI technology 
to help find the best food spots in America" and relies on a "panel of judges" who "determine if a 
restaurant is the best in its class." We agree with the Director's determination that this limited 
information falls short of establishing that this award is a nationally or internationally recognized 
award for excellence in the Petitioner's field, as the supporting evidence does not sufficiently 
demonstrate the criteria used to grant the award, its national or international significance in the field, 
the level of recognition association with it, or the number of awardees or prize recipients. 
We have also considered the Petitioner's claim that the _________ Award qualifies 
as an internationally recognized award. The Petitioner provided information about the awards 
program from the -website , which states that "businesses around the world are 
welcome to participate and achieve well-deserved recognition." The evidence indicates that self­
nominations are accepted and that all who accept a nomination are shortlisted and evaluated by an 
"internal panel." All award announcements are made digitally, and the winners can select "the level 
of coverage that suits them," apparently referring to options to purchase additional promotional 
packages. 
Thel !website indicates that "its main coverage takes the form of a digital winners' 
magazine." The record does not establish that the Petitioner was included in this magazine or that it 
received any recognition beyond having its name listed among winners on the awards section of the 
magazine's website. As with the award discussed above, the evidence does not 
demonstrate that a __________ A ward or A ward is a nationally or 
internationally recognized award, as it does not contain sufficient evidence of the level of recognition 
4 
associated with the award . ______ according to a submitted "media pack" is free digital 
lifestyle magazine, based in the United Kingdom, which is distributed bi-monthly to its subscribers in 
various countries. The evidence does not establish, for example, that it is a major media publication 
or contain other independent evidence to support the Petitioner's claim that its restaurant and 
hospitality awards programs have reached the level of national or international recognition. 
In his response to the RFE, the Petitioner asserted that the Director attempted to undermine the 
significance of this award by observing that had bestowed this award on many 
restaurant and bar establishments in 2023. He noted that there are over 700,000 food and drinking 
establishments in the United States alone, and that awarded only 1,445 awards to 
restaurants located worldwide. Based on these facts, the Petitioner asserted that the awards were 
issued to fewer than 0.2% of all possible candidates, and receipt of this award "would denote an 
individual being in the small percentage of restaurants at the very top of the field." The Petitioner's 
claim appears to be based on the proposition that every restaurant in the world was nominated and 
considered for receipt of this award, a premise that is not supported by the information in the record. 
While the Petitioner emphasized that awards program accepts nominations 
internationally, we note the Petitioner was named Best Family-Owned Community Coffee Shop in 
Colorado and Best Local Coffee Shop in Colorado. We do not consider the 
geographic descriptors associated with these awards to be immaterial, as limitations on competitors 
may be a relevant factor in evaluating this criterion. The record does not contain information regarding 
these specific award categories, the number of nominees in each category, or how geographic location 
impacts the categories and the selection of award winners. Based on the evidence submitted and the 
awards bestowed, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner's business competed against a national or 
international pool of nominees in the same restaurant category. Regardless, as noted, the record does 
not contain evidence that the ______ awards are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field. 
Finally, we note that in response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from I ____ 
Director ofl I He states that his organization, described as "a Christian 501c3"offered 
10 financial gifts to business owners participating in their ministry and received 923 applications. He 
states that the Petitioner and his spouse applied and were "accepted ... based on the criteria of [their] 
Christian faith and business ownership." The Petitioner asserted that "[t]his grant put [the Petitioner] 
... in the top percentage within his field." While it appears there was significant competition for this 
monetary award, the letter from Mr. is insufficient to establish that this financial gift or grant is 
a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize for excellence in the Petitioner's field. 
For the reasons discussed, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet his 
evidentiary burden to establish that he has received nationally or internationally recognized awards or 
prizes for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
2. Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
5 
The Petitioner submitted copies of five articles that were published online or in print b by newspapers
and magazines, including articles in World magazine (w ww. wng.org), 
(www.l lcom), I I (wwwl I.com), andI I The Petitioner also indicated that he was interviewed by FOX news in I I Colorado, onl I2023, but noted that there was no archived recording of the televised 
interview. He provided an undated Instagram post from the verified account of a FOX□ news 
weatherman who mentioned meeting the Petitioner at his business, as well as al 2017, article 
posted to the FO:xDwebsite which mentions that the Petitioner's business would be hosting a I I I I event on 12017. Finally, he provided information regarding World magazine,DI Ifrom these entities' websites. 
In the RFE, the Director discussed this evidence and advised the Petitioner that he did not meet his 
burden to demonstrate that the articles were published in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. In response, the Petitioner claimed that World magazine and I I a 
newspaper, qualify as major media based on their circulation data, which was 
included with his submission. He further stated that although no circulation data was available for I I it qualifies as major media because it targets the I !metropolitan area, which is 
"home to millions of individuals." He did not pursue his initial claim that he satisfies this criterion 
based on the articles published in or 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to support his claim 
that the submitted articles were published in major media. In evaluating whether a submitted 
publication qualifies as major media, relevant factors include the relative circulation, readership or 
viewership of the source that published it. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not meet his evidentiary burden to 
establish the submitted articles were published in major media; he has not claimed that any of the 
articles appeared in professional or major trade publications. Further, he has not specifically addressed 
this criterion on appeal, other than noting that the Director should have given more weight to the 
above-referenced Tnstagram post from a verified account. 
While the Petitioner provided circulation information for World magazine and I he did not 
provide relative circulation data or rankings showing that these publications enjoy a circulation, 
readership or viewership that places them among "major media" publications. The circulation 
numbers alone, without context or comparative data, are insufficient. Further, the fact that I I 
I !targets a major metropolitan area is not sufficient to demonstrate that this magazine, for which 
no circulation data was provided, qualifies as major media. Finally, while the record contains some 
support for the Petitioner's claim that he was interviewed on a local television news station inl I 
I I the record does not include a transcription of the interview, evidence of the date on which it 
was aired, or evidence that this local television station qualifies as major media. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
6 
3. Participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or 
allied field of specialization for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his "invitation to volunteer as 
a judge and mentor of other small businesses" with which is described as "an 
organization dedicated to providing training, coaching, and support to small businesses." A letter from 
a representative of ______ states that the Petitioner leads a "weekly small group for 
business training," and identifies six participants in these small group sessions. The letter states that 
the Petitioner provides "invaluable mentorship and guidance to local entrepreneurs." 
In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner that the letter from did not 
sufficiently document his activities as a judge or his claimed work with the participants named in the 
letter. In response, the Petitioner submitted letters from two business owners named in the initial letter 
from ______ One letter is addressed to the Petitioner, references the ______ 
meetings, and thanks him for offering "excellent information concerning the operations, marketing, 
strategizing, HR, etc. of running a successful business." The other participant's letter states that he 
attended a ______ class led by the Petitioner. The author indicates he learned "valuable 
aspects of entrepreneurship" and "benefited greatly from the wisdom shared by a seasoned veteran in 
the business world." 
The Petitioner also submitted letters from five current and former employees of his cafe business. 
These letters uniformly praise his leadership, integrity, dedication to customer service, the professional 
and personal mentorship he provides to employees, and the "learning environment" he creates in his 
shop, with several employees elaborating on the specific business-related skills he taught them during 
their tenure with the business. 
The Director acknowledged the content ofthe letters, and the authors' relationship with the Petitioner, 
but concluded that the evidence did not establish that his training activities with I 
or as a business owner satisfied the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The 
Petitioner does not directly address this criterion on appeal, other than generally claiming that most 
evidence submitted in support of the petition was erroneously deemed insufficient. We agree with the 
Director's determination. 
While the Petitioner indicated that his work with ______ involved serving, in part, as a 
"judge" of other small businesses, the evidence does not support this statement. Rather the evidence 
indicates that his volunteer role with that company was to offer small group training sessions to several 
small business owners, during which he shared his knowledge and experience and provided guidance. 
The letters from I I and the participants in the training sessions do not demonstrate 
that his role involved ''judging the work of others." Further, the letters from the Petitioner's own 
current and former employees merely corroborate his provision of standard on-the-job training and 
guidance to ensure that his staff successfully performed their duties; they do not document his 
participation as a judge of other entrepreneurs in his field of specialization or in an allied field. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
7 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets any of the three evidentiary criteria discussed 
above. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of the remaining two claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve and will 
not address these remaining issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, 
like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to 
the results they reach); see also Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining 
to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). The record indicates that 
the Petitioner is a successful entrepreneur and small business owner who makes valuable contributions 
to his local community. He has earned the respect and admiration of that community, as well as a 
reputation for offering high-quality products and services. However, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained national or international 
acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2024 In Re: 33031054 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business manager in construction and architectural engineering, seeks classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not provided enough information about his claim of extraordinary ability. The matter is now before 
us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition 
through a one-time achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award, or the 
petitioner can submit evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
If the above standards do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows the submission of comparable evidence. 
If a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements, we then assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
When he filed the petition in May 2023, the Petitioner did not claim to have received a major, 
internationally recognized award. The petition included the following supporting documents, 
translated from Russian, but the Petitioner did not explain which of the criteria he intended to address 
with that evidence: 
• Job announcements for positions in construction management; 
• An invitation for the Petitioner to "participate . . . as [a] member of the Competition 
Commission for selection of the most interesting modem projects and solutions for public 
urban spaces" at an "exhibition-presentation" in Moscow in 2019; and 
• Letters and certificates issued to the Petitioner and his company, acknowledging the company's 
involvement in various municipal and private projects. 
The Petitioner also submitted a statement describing his career in architectural and construction 
engineering. This statement did not address the eligibility criteria or explain how the Petitioner has 
achieved sustained national or international acclaim in his field. 
Because the Petitioner did not explain how the submitted materials relate to the eligibility criteria, the 
Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) on October 26, 2023. The Director stated: "Because the 
submitted documentation does not specify what criteria are claimed we are unable to address the areas 
ofinsufficiency [ and list evidence that] could be submitted to overcome them." The Director therefore 
asked the Petitioner to "identify the specific criteria" and explain how the evidence relates to them. 
The RFE included a cover sheet with instructions for the Petitioner to submit his response "with this 
page on top" to a specified address in Lincoln, Nebraska. The Director also advised: "submission of 
evidence without this coversheet will delay processing ... and may result in a denial." The Director 
advised the Petitioner that his "response must be received in this office by January 21, 2024." The 
specified due date occurred on a Sunday, and therefore the response was due on Monday, January 22. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 1.2. 
The Director denied the petition on March 5, 2024, stating "no response [to the RFE] has been 
received." 
2 
Review of the record shows two attempts by the Petitioner to respond to the RFE. The Petitioner 
submitted translated copies of two letters, which we will discuss further below. The Petitioner mailed 
the letters to a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services filing address in Lewisville, Texas, where 
they arrived on January 18, 2024. This delivery occurred within the time permitted, but the Petitioner 
did not send them to the correct address; did not include the RFE response cover sheet; and did not 
otherwise indicate that the materials were submitted in response to an RFE. Therefore, the materials 
did not timely reach the record. Filings are considered to be "received" as of the actual date ofreceipt 
at the location designatedforfiling. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(i). 
About three weeks later, the Petitioner mailed additional copies of the same two letters to the correct 
Nebraska address specified in the RFE. They were delivered on February 12, 2024, 21 days after the 
RFE filing deadline. Additional time to respond to an RFE may not be granted. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(8)(iv). As before, this second mailing did not include the cover sheet or other indication 
that the materials were submitted in response to an RFE. 
While the denial notice did not take the above submissions into account, it remains that the Petitioner 
did not submit a timely response to the RFE that complied with the Director's instructions and 
requirements. 
Furthermore, the two letters that comprise the RFE response do not, on their face, address the 
eligibility criteria or otherwise demonstrate extraordinary ability. The letters are from clients, 
expressing appreciation to the Petitioner and his company for "fruitful collaboration" on unspecified 
projects. 
An appeal must specifically identify an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact as a basis for 
the appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). The Petitioner's appeal does not meet this requirement. The 
Petitioner filed a timely appeal, checking a box indicating that a "brief and/or additional evidence is 
attached," but the appeal materials in the record do not include any brief, additional evidence, or 
statement from the Petitioner explaining the basis for the appeal. 
We will dismiss the appeal, because the Petitioner has not identified any grounds for appeal and the 
record supports the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not set forth any specific claim of 
eligibility for the benefit he seeks in this proceeding. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 16, 2024 In Re: 32749688 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dance professional , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement s for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner' s receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dance professional who competes in dance competitions and is involved in dance­
related artistic work as a choreographer and a dance coach. The record includes documentation to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's activities as a dance professional in various international settings. The 
Petitioner intends to continue to pursue his career in "dancesport." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the regulatory criteria by providing 
evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others in his field of expertise, and through the 
artistic display of his dancesport. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (viii), and (ix). The 
Petitioner states that the Director did not provide a full analysis of the evidence submitted or 
sufficiently consider certain evidence. As more fully discussed below, we conclude that the Petitioner 
has satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Because the Petitioner has shown that he 
satisfies at least three criteria, we will remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of a final merits determination to determine whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated his sustained national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage 
at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence (1) of published material, (2) that the published 
material contains the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation, (3) that the 
published material is about the Petitioner relating to the Petitioner's work in the field, and (4) that the 
published material qualifies as professional or major trade publications or other major media. The 
2 
petitioner's evidence must satisfy every one ofthese elements to meet the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. Further, for purposes of this criterion, while published material need not be 
primarily or only about a petitioner to qualify, it cannot be solely about their employer or another 
organization with which they are associated. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2. 
The record includes copies of several articles, published either digitally or in print, by media in the 
Petitioner's country of origin, which discuss or mention the Petitioner and his work. The Director 
acknowledged that an article, Ipublished in a general news publication, The Star [S-], 
partially met the plain language of this criterion as the article included the title, date and author of the 
article, and discussed his work in the field. (We observe that the Petitioner also initially submitted 
another article published in S-'s digital version, [ ] 
which includes the same qualifying aspects as the article discussed by the 
Director in the denial.) The Director, denied the petition, concluding in part that as S-did not qualify 
as major media, S-'s published articles about him did not meet the plain language of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that S-did not qualify as major 
media, and that he is eligible for this criterion based on these and other articles. Based on our de novo 
review of the record we conclude that there is sufficient evidence from a variety of sources that 
suggests more likely than not, that S-was a major media outlet in the Petitioner's home country when 
the articles about the Petitioner were published in 2019. For instance, R-'s Digital News Report 2020 
indicates that S-ranked 5th for general news media in the Petitioner's country in that year, while a 
report about S-from a data analytics firm, S-W-, shows that S-ranked 4th for news media there in 
2023. We also note that according to SCimago Media Rankings, S-ranked 5th in that nation for general 
news media in 2023 -when the petition was filed, and S-currently ranks 1st for such media in that 
country. See generally https:l/www.scimagomedia.com/rankings.php. We therefore agree with the 
Petitioner that he meets this criterion, and the Director erred in concluding otherwise. 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), and (vii), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for the handful of individuals at 
the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
the required sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
3 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18184748 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 17, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fish market, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. On the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, the Petitioner 
indicated that a brief and/or additional evidence would be submitted to this office within 30 days. The 
appeal was filed on February 23, 2021. As of this date, no additional evidence has been incorporated into 
the record of proceeding, and the record will be considered complete. 
In a letter accompanying the Form I-290B, the Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary is knowledgeable 
about its business and makes a personal plea for approval of the petition. The Petitioner did not 
acknowledge or address the grounds for denial of the petition or contend that the petition was denied 
based on any specified error on the part of the Director. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) states, in pertinent part, that "[a]n officer to whom an 
appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify 
specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
Here, the Petitioner has not contested any aspect of the Director's decision and has not identified an 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact on the part of the Director as a basis for the appeal. 
Therefore, the appeal will be summarily dismissed. 
We note that the Director's decision adequately addressed the evidence submitted with respect to each 
of the claimed evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and explained why such evidence was 
insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden. The Petitioner was therefore given a sufficient explanation 
of the grounds for denial as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i), and a fair opportunity to contest the 
decision. We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the 
Beneficiary was eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As the Petitioner has not identified an erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact in support of the appeal, the appeal must be summarily dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 17, 2023 In Re: 23091359 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fire prevention specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top ofthe field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Documents in the file indicate that the Petitioner worked for thel IFire BrigadeI I from 1997 to 2014, in such capacities as senior engineer and deputy director ofthe I I 
Fire Prevention Department and as chief of thel IFire Battalion. The Petitioner joined the 
I IFire Protection Association I I in 2015, and was elected as one ofits vice presidents in 
2018. Since 2015, the Petitioner has spent much ofhis time in the United States, first as the J-2 spouse 
ofa J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor, then as the F-2 spouse of an F-1 nonimmigrant student. The 
Petitioner seeks to develop a business involving portable aerosol fire extinguishers. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied four of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the requirements ofthree criteria, relating to 
memberships, scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that, although the Petitioner had satisfied three of the initial 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), a final merits determination did not show that the Petitioner had 
earned sustained national or international acclaim. On appeal, the Petitioner contends: "Fulfillment 
of the three categories is generally sufficient to meet the burden of proving Extraordinary Ability." 
Meeting the initial criteria, however, does not establish a presumption of eligibility. The purpose of 
the final merits determination is to evaluate the quality of the evidence submitted to meet the criteria 
and to determine whether the record, as a whole, supports approval of the petition. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Below, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, 
his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments 
and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine iftheir successes are sufficient to demonstrate that 
they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that 
the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner "is revered as an outstanding talent in 
the field of fire prevention; however, he has not established that [his] success from 2010 and 2014 
contribute[s] to a finding ofthe required sustained national or international acclaim." The Director stated: 
According to the petition and supporting documents, the beneficiary entered the field of 
Fire Prevention 13 years ago. . . . The beneficiaiy decided to retire from the fire 
department in July 2014; however planning to join the industry organizatio~ Ian 
international technological and educational organization, at an appropriate time, so as to 
deepen exchanges with peers in the U.S. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision is "lacking in analysis" and "has not 
accurately stated the facts." The Petitioner alleges two specific factual errors. First, the Petitioner disputes 
the assertion that the Petitioner "entered the field of Fire Prevention 13 years ago," stating that he "had 
served at a high level for 20 years in the field." The Director's reference to "13 years" appears to have 
been a biographical detail rather than a specific ground for denying the petition. 
Regarding the other disputed claim, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "stated 'The Beneficiaiy 
decided to retire from the fire department in July 2014' thus sounding as ifhe were fully retired and not 
active in his career. Again, this information is not accurate as Petitioner maintains an active role in the 
Profession at the top tier." But the Director did not state that the Petitioner had completely retired from 
the field of fire safety and prevention. Rather, the Director stated that the Petitioner "retire[ d] from the 
fire department in July 2014," referring to the Petitioner's departure from thel IThe Petitioner's 
own exhibits document this fact. Exhibit 69 of the Petitioner's initial submission, certifying the 
Petitioner's election to the vice presidency of thel lspecifically states that the Beneficiaiy "retired 
from the Service of Fire Prevention in July 2014." The Petitioner resubmits this document on appeal. 
The Director's accurate reference to information in the record does not indicate that the Director erred in 
denying the petition. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has held high-rankin ositions ml !china, mostly in the I I Nevertheless, the record also establishes that th is a municipal entity. Likewise, the 
name of theI Iindicates a connection with the city o ~--~rather than an organization with 
national or international reach. The Petitioner's evidence predominantly focuses on his stature i~.______. 
and the surrounding~-------=====-=-:Region. 
For example, the Petitioner belonged to a I I Safety Production Ex~ert Panel." A published article 
about the panel's formation confirmed that a local authority, "the[ ISecurity 
Committee," convened the panel. Nearly every member of that panel was employed by an entity with 
the word I ~ its name, consistent with a local, municipal venture. Similarly, the 
1 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
Petitioner sat on review panels for projects that took place in._l_____.I and fellow panelists were from 
entities in I I 
The I !bylaws state that an individual must show "major influence in th~ to qualify for 
election as a vice president of the association. A letter from the president of thel__Jstates: "The 
Executive Council of the Association nom1ated [thl Petitioner] ... for the position of Vice President 
based on" such factors as his service on the Safety Production Committee," his involvement in 
"the promulgation ofl jRegulations on Fire Control," and his se1vice on review panels 
which, the record shows, have been convened at the municipal level~ IThe Petitioner's election 
to a leadership position in a municipal association is consistent with local recognition. 
The Petitioner wrote six scholarly articles documented in the record. The Director acknowledged that 
these articles satisfy the wording ofthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but the publication ofthose 
articles does not inherently reflect or result in sustained national or international acclaim. Information 
about the circulation of the journals in which the articles appeared, or the reputations of the publishers, 
does not establish the impact ofindividual articles or the acclaim ofthe authors of those articles. Most of 
the Petitioner's articles appeared in journals with j Iin the title, and the Petitioner has not 
established that the articles attracted wider attention or significantly influenced the field at a national or 
international level. A "goodly number" of citations of a published article are one possible gauge of the 
article's impact. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Here, the Petitioner's 
most-cited article received six citations since its publication in December 2006, more than 13 years before 
the Petitioner filed the petition in April 2020. The Petitioner did not show that this citation rate 
demonstrates a level ofrecognition and influence consistent with national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he has earned acclaim among fire prevention specialists outside ofI I or that his work in1 Ihas been adopted on a national or international scale. The Petitioner 
submitted examples of "National Standards," but he did not show that he played a role in their 
development. Rather, the Petitioner apparently submitted the "National Standards" to show that some of 
the individuals who developed those standards also served on panels with him. The Petitioner's 
collaboration with such individuals, however, is not evidence of his own wider recognition. The 
Petitioner must show that he has earned sustained national or international acclaim, not that he has worked 
with those who have done so. 
The Petitioner referred to "fire-resistant glasses, which are manufactured according to the standards ... 
formulated by [the Petitioner] and others, have a leading position in the industry." But we can find no 
documentary evidence in the record to establish the Petitioner's role in these standards or the products' 
"leading position in the industry." The ambiguous wording does not specify whether the Petitioner played 
a role in developing the fire-resistant glass itself. 
The Petitioner is named as an inventor on "4 national patents [ in China] for fire protection products." The 
Petitioner submitted a document identifying four patent applications; from the submitted translations, it 
is not clear whether the applications were approved and the patents awarded. The awarding of patents 
does not "demonstrate[] that the [Petitioner] has been at the top of his field." The Petitioner did not 
establish that China awards patents based on the significance of a given invention or innovation, rather 
than its originality. Also, he did not establish that the patented inventions have actually gone into 
commercial production, or that they have had a significant impact on fire prevention in China. 
4 
The Director took evidence of the I I overall reputation into consideration, granting that the 
Petitioner had performed in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a 
distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). But absent additional evidence, the overall 
reputation of such an organization does not necessarily establish national or international acclaim for 
individual high-ranking officials within that organization. We note that some of the evidence submitted 
to establish thel !reputation relates to events that occurred after the Petitioner left thd lin 
2014, such as patiicipation in an international drill in 2018. 
The Petitioner asserts that, out of about 170,000 "fire prevention troops" in China, only about 800 hold 
national certification as senior engineers. One of the Petitioner's past collaborators asserted that the 
Beneficia1y ranked in the top 100 nationally in the qualifying test for that title. 2 The Petitioner states that, 
as one of that top 100 out of 170,000, he ranks among the small percentage at the very top ofhis field. 
The Petitioner has not shown that there is a valid comparison between the cited figures. For instance, the 
Petitioner has not shown that all 170,000 troops took the certification examination, or that "senior 
engineer" is the highest attainable rank for "fire prevention troops." Evidence showing that only a small 
fraction of "fire prevention troops" are "senior engineers" does not suffice to establish that the title of 
"senior engineer" reflects, or results in, sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his local reputation in._________ _,has expanded into acclaim 
at the national or international level as the statute requires. See section 203 (b)(1 )(A )(i) ofthe Act. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established significant recognition inl land 
its capital city ofl Ibut he has not shown that the recognition ofhis work has reached the level 
ofsustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career ofacclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The Petitioner also asserted that he was the top scorer inl.____.l but this is a local distinction rather than a national or 
international one as the statute and regulations require. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 18, 2023 In Re: 27203023 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oil and gas specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S .C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We dismissed 
a subsequent appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider . 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I.LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for 
the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 l&N Dec. 464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new 
evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In order to establish eligibility for the extraordinary ability classification, a petitioner must either 
demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If a 
petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality ofthe evidence to 
determine whether the record shows the individual's sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that they are among the small percentage at the very top of their field of endeavor. See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and the, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination). 
The Petitioner does not claim that he has a one-time achievement and seeks to establish that he has 
provided evidence meeting at least three of the ten criteria. The Director found, and our previous 
decision agreed, that the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), for participating as a judge of the work of others in his field and for 
publishing scholarly articles. However, we also affirmed the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
did not meet the other criteria he claimed: 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (viii) Lead or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations; 
and 
• (ix) High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he qualifies for all three ofthe criteria that we previously denied. 
A. Motion to Reopen 
On motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits evidence regarding his wages and professional 
accomplishments. First, we note that much ofthe evidence submitted on motion came into being after 
the petition filing date of May 2020. Petitioners must establish eligibility as of the time of filing. 
8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). Therefore, while speaking invitations and other evidence that postdate the 
filing of the petition can establish a petitioner's continuing national or international acclaim, they 
cannot establish initial eligibility. Id.; see Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (BIA 1971) (stating 
that properly denied visa petitions cannot be subsequently approved at a future date when a noncitizen 
may become qualified under a new set of facts). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), significant contribution to the field, the Petitioner 
submits various publication and speaking offers, as well as statistics regarding his academic 
publications. This new evidence postdates the filing of the petition and therefore cannot establish the 
level of significance the Petitioner's contributions had reached as of the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). As such, the new facts provided do not demonstrate that as of the time of filing, the 
Petitioner had made original contributions to his field, or that those contributions were of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner did not submit new evidence regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(viii), lead 
or critical role for organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations, and therefore has 
not overcome our prior conclusion that he did not qualify under this criterion. 
2 
The Petitioner previously sought to establish his eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) by comparing his wages to those of construction managers. In our prior decision, 
we noted that the petition did not establish that the Petitioner's duties were comparable to those of 
construction managers. We farther noted that the available information appeared to indicate that the 
Petitioner was employed as an engineer in the oil and gas industry, and that he had not submitted 
evidence showing that his salary or other remuneration were high in relation to others in that field. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he also earns a significantly high salary in relation to other 
engineers in the oil and gas industry, and submits wage data from the Bureau ofLabor Statistics (BLS) 
for various engineering occupations to support this claim. 1 The Petitioner earned $161,440 in 2018 
and $180,165 in 2019. The latter wage is higher than the 90th percentile wage in Texas for all of the 
engineering disciplines provided by the Petitioner, which the Petitioner contends qualifies him for this 
criterion. However, despite the Petitioner's claims, the same is not true when specifically comparing 
the Petitioner's wage to 2019 Texas wages in the oil and gas industry.2 
The 90th percentile wage for Texas construction managers in the Petitioner's industry in 2019 was 
$206,860. For mechanical engineers in the same location and industry, the 90th percentile wage was 
$196,910. The 90th percentile wages for civil engineers and electrical engineers were not recorded 
because they were higher than $208,000 a year. While the Petitioner has not clarified which of these 
occupations or combination of occupations aligns with his work, the record indicates that his wages 
have been below the 90th percentile when compared to those ofsimilar workers regardless. We farther 
note that the Petitioner has described his work as managerial and involving the oversight of other 
engineers, and the mean wage for Texas architectural and engineering managers in the oil and gas 
industry in 2019 was $214,230, which is significantly higher than the Petitioner's wage at the time. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner asserts that earning a wage above the 90th percentile for his field 
qualifies him for this criterion, the record does not establish that he meets this standard or that his 
salary was high enough to be notable within his field. 
Finally, while we acknowledge the Petitioner's job offer for a position paying $100 an hour, or 
$208,000 for a year of foll-time work, this offer is dated October 2022, which is over two years after 
the underlying petition was filed. Therefore, the job offer cannot establish the Petitioner's initial 
eligibility in this case. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The new evidence provided by the Petitioner does not 
establish that he has received a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in comparison 
with others in his field, and so he does not qualify under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has not submitted new facts which establish his eligibility for the benefit sought. 
Therefore, he has not met the requirements of a motion to reopen, and the motion will be dismissed. 
1 The motion includes national and Texas wage data pertaining to civil engineers; mechanical engineers; mining and 
geological engineers; marine engineers and naval architects; energy engineers, except wind and solar; and electrical 
engineers. Notably, despite the Petitioner's employment on natural gas projects, it does not include data for petroleum 
engineers. Additionally, as it is not apparent that the Petitioner was employed as a mining, marine, or energy engineer in 
2018 or 2019, we will not analyze the wage figures for those occupations. 
2 Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Dep't of Labor, Occupational Employment and Wage Statistics Research Estimates, 
https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_research_estimates.htm (follow hyperlink for "Sectors 21, 22, & 23: Mining, 
Utilities, and Construction" under "May 2019" to download the data in .xlsx format). 
3 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner contests the conclusions of our prior decision. 3 The Petitioner 
states that he submitted the types ofdocumentation listed in the Director's request for evidence (RFE), 
and that this should be sufficient to establish his eligibility.4 However, the Petitioner does not identify 
a law or policy that we incorrectly applied in our last decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)3). 
Furthermore, much of the evidence provided in response to the RFE and on appeal did not come into 
existence until after the etition was filed and thus cannot demonstrate eli ibility. For example, the 
Petitioner's book,~-----------------------~ was registered for a 
copyright in June 2020, indicating it was published at this time. The five Amazon reviews of the book 
are from March and April 2021, and the various other forms of recognition the book received also 
came after the time of filing the petition. The Petitioner cannot establish that as of May 2020, the time 
of filing, his book had had a significant impact on the field as per 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), because 
the book was not yet published at that time. 
Secondly, the evidence does not establish that any of the Petitioner's contributions have had a major 
impact on his field. For example, the Academia.edu readership analytics of the Petitioner's scholarly 
publications do not provide sufficient information to establish whether these publications have 
influenced subsequent work in the field. Statistics such as the Petitioner being in the "Top 3.1 % by 
Views" in a 12-month period do not indicate who he is being compared with, and appear to be derived 
from viewership within narrow research areas such as "Gas Pipelines" and "Hot Corrosion." The 
significance of this data is therefore not apparent. Furthermore, these statistics do not establish how 
often the Petitioner has been cited by others, which is a more reliable indicator of influence on the 
field than simple readership. 5•6 The various speaking and publication invitations in the record also do 
not indicate that they were issued due to a specific impact the Petitioner's work had on his field. 
The support letters provided do not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work has had such a deep or 
widespread impact as to be considered major in the field of oil and gas construction engineering. For 
example, the letter from K-V-, an engineer atl Istates that two of the Petitioner's articles 
were used "as reference material/input for preparation of pipe support and Human Factors technical 
specifications to be used during the engineering phase" of an unspecified project, but does not state to 
what extent that input influenced the project. Various other letters, such as those from his former 
coworkers P-P-and S-G, indicate that the Petitioner has helped the profitability of his employers and 
speak highly of his abilities, but do not specify how his work was original or how it has impacted the 
field of oil and gas construction engineering as a whole. 
3 The Petitioner also repeats his prior appeal's contention that the Director overlooked evidence in the original denial. 
However, our review on motion is limited to our prior decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l )(ii). 
4 Evidence must be examined for relevance, probative value, and credibility in determining whether a petitioner's claim is 
probably true. See Matter ofChawathe, 25 T&N Dec. at 376. 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions- First Step ofReviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual ("[E]ntries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite the person's 
work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor."). 
6 We further note that these statistics encompass a time span from October 2019 to April 2021, much of which falls after 
the petition filing date. 
4 
The record does not establish that the "philosophy document" the Petitioner wrote for the Petroleum 
Exploration and Production Association ofNew Zealand is original or show that its use has impacted 
others. The documentation regarding the Tribology Excellence A ward from the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers does not state the criteria for the award beyond "showcasing an excellent 
professional case study" that was used by the Petitioner's employer to "improve efficiency and output" 
from a production facility. It is therefore not apparent that this award is for original work or that it 
reflects any impact beyond that employer. The evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made an original contribution to his field which has had a major impact on that field as a whole, and 
so he does not qualify for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii , the Petitioner · ht to establish his 
eli ibilit based on leadin or critical roles for and 
L...-----------------1---'-O~u;;;....r =ri;....co.;;;..r....cd'"""'"e-'-c=is"'"io=n=fo.;;_u'-'-'ind that the Wikipedia articles provided 
were insufficient to establish that.___________ __, are organizations with distinguished 
reputations in the field. On motion, the Petitioner states that he "would not much stress ...I II I as it is a company based in India and is very reputed there, but it does not mean 
that people in the United States would know about the organization and it being distinguished ..." 
He goes on to state that 1 1-. needs no evidence to be considered a distinguished one" 
because of its long history and its operations during World War II. 
It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361, Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013) (citing Matter of 
Brantigan, 11 I&N Dec. 493, 495 (BIA 1966)). Stating tha~ !history gives it such a 
distinguished reputation that it requires no evidence does not meet the Petitioner's burden in this case. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First 
Step of Reviewing Evidence ("The relative size and longevity of an organization or establishment is 
not in and of itself a determining factor but is considered together with other information to determine 
whether a distinguished reputation exists."). The Petitioner has declined to provide any reason our 
decision was incorrect regardingI I reputation, except to state that its reputation is more 
known in India than in the United States. This assertion does not establish that our decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3).7 
The Petitioner does not assert our prior decision applied a law or policy incorrectly regarding the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy at the time we issued our decision. Therefore, the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
7 We acknowledge the Petitioner's contention that his hiring for the.__ _____ __,qualifies him for this criterion. 
However, as noted above. eligibility must be established as of the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Since the 
Petitioner was hired for this position well after filing, we decline to consider it when determining his initial eligibility. Id. 
5 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF W-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a photographer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met 
the requirements of at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider evidence in the record. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
Matter of W-C-
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards, published material about him and his work, and the authorship of scholarly articles 
in his field. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that it meets the requisite three 
evidentiary criteria, but does not establish the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is one of that small percentage at the very top of the field of photography.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of five awards in the field of photography for which he was either 
selected or nominated. Because the plain language of this criterion calls for receipt of prizes or awards, 
nomination or selection as a finalist for an award is not considered qualifying under this criterion. 
Therefore, the evidence showing that he and his wife were "short-listed" for thel IA ward 
for photo books in 2016 forl l and for the 20161 I Photography A ward, does 
not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
1 The Director found that the evidence submitted under each of the evidentiary criteria claimed by the Petitioner included 
foreign language documents which were not accompanied by certified English translations as required under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(6)(3). Upon review, we have determined that unless otherwise noted, the foreign language documents in 
the record have been properly translated in accordance with the regulation. 
2 
Matter of W-C-
Also submitted was evidence that the Petitioner received two "Outstanding Works of Art" awards for 
the photographs he submitted to the I I Photography Exhibition in I I 2010. 
Supporting evidence indicates that they were among 80 such awards in the Art category that year, and 
that a single "Master Collection" prize and ten "Collection" prizes were also awarded. In addition, 
the evidence indicates that both the call for submissions for the exhibition and the announcement of 
the awards were posted on Tencent News, but does not provide sufficient information about the 
specific website or location where these notices appeared to support the degree of recognition these 
awards received. Further, the resumes of three other photographers who were awarded at the 
exhibition were also submitted, but only one of these resumes mentions the award. This evidence does 
not sufficiently demonstrate that these two awards received by the Petitioner are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
Evidence of two additional awards received by the Petitioner was also submitted. These are the 2015 ~ New Talent Award and the 2016 I I Emerging Photographers Award. This evidence 
indicates that the photographs submitted for both of these awards were judged by a panel of well­
known experts in the field, that the Petitioner's receipt of these awards received coverage in 
professional and major media, and that the work was subsequently displayed in public venues. As 
such, this evidence establishes that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class(fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Copies of several articles obtained from websites were submitted as evidence in support of the 
Petitioner's qualification under this criterion. Some of these, such as the two articles from Lens 
Culture, were not about the Petitioner and his work, either because they were written by him or because 
the focus of the material was a larger group of artists. Others, including materials from Vice China, 
IMA Magazine.I !Center, Xitek, and Guyu Report, are about the Petitioner and his work, and 
generally include examples of his photographs, but the evidence does not establish that all of these 
can be considered as professional, major trade or other major media. For instance, the material from I lcenter, which details a solo exhibit of the Petitioner's photographs in its gallery, originates 
from its social media page (WeChat.) But the evidence does not establish that the primary audience 
for this media consists of professional photographers, as opposed to art enthusiasts or the general 
public, or that this particular format generates sufficient readership to qualify as major media. 
Similarly, the media from IMA Magazine includes both a short article about the Petitioner which 
appeared in the print version and a longer version on its website. However, the evidence about the 
magazine indicates that it is written for photography connoisseurs and collectors rather than 
photographers, and that its relatively limited circulation does not reach a wide enough audience for it 
to be considered as major media. The evidence concerning the websites for Xitek and Guyu Report 
also include insufficient evidence to establish those media as one of the qualifying types under this 
criterion. 
3 
Matter of W-C-
The evidence from the media kit of VICE China, which indicates that its website and social media 
platforms have millions of subscribers and tens of millions of visitors, is sufficient to establish it as 
major media. Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner meets this criterion based upon the article about 
him and his work which appeared in that publication. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from experts in the field, including professors, 
curators and fellow photographers. 2 I I of the University of I I 
.c=]writes that she encountered the Petitioner's workl I when it was exhibited at the 
L__jPhotography Festival in 2016, and has included imag~f af this work in her lectures about 
trends in photography. I I also states that she considers .... L ___ ___,_ as "part of the cutting 
edge of global artistic practice." 
Deputy Director of thJ I art museum in Beijing, indicates that he ~-----::-----=-:-:--------::----.==------=---. m~etitioner at the Photo ra hy Festival, and selected his work for a group exhibition 
atL_J in 2018. He writes that~ ___ _,"is an exceptional art practice in contemporary China," 
and compares it to the work of other "leading international artists." 
Another letter in the record is from I I a photography researcher and curator, who selected the 
Petitioner and his wife among eight artists for a project displayed in thel I Museum. 
Similarly J I explains how he selected! I for a solo exhibit atl lcenter. Other 
letters praise the Petitioner's work and confirm its display and awards received. 
These letters confirm that the Petitioner's original work I I has been awarded and displayed 
at artistic venues, but they do not establish that it is a contribution of major significance in the field of 
photography. In particular, while some of them compare this work to that of famous photographers, 
they do not suggest that it has influenced the work of other photographers or otherwise made an impact 
upon the field of photography. Therefore, this evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the .field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In his decision, the Director found that the evidence of the Petitioner's books,.__ ______ ___, I I andl I did not meet this criterion because it did not 
establish their scholarly nature. The Director noted that scholarly articles are typically written for 
2 We thoroughly reviewed all of the reference letters in the record, but not all of the letters are analyzed in this decision. 
4 
Matter of W-C-
learned individuals and report on original research or philosophical discourse. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that this represents too narrow an interpretation of what constitutes a scholarly 
article, and that these books, as well as the Petitioner's article about I I which was published 
in Lens Culture, as comparable evidence under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). That provision 
allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to an individual's occupation. 3 
When submitting evidence that it wishes to be considered as comparable evidence, a petitioner should 
explain why they have not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth 
in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence they have included is "comparable" to that 
required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).4 
Here, the Petitioner has in fact presented evidence which meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not explained why these materials, which consist in two cases of 
collections of personal photographs with an autobiographical narrative, should be considered as 
comparable to scholarly articles published in professional or major trade media or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that this evidence should be considered as comparable 
evidence under this criterion, or that it otherwise establishes that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner meets this criterion. Based upon the evidf nce of the display of 
the Petitioner's work in a solo exhibition at I . I Center, group exhibition at I Museum, 
and in several national and international photography festivals, we agree with the Director. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As detailed above, the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence and established that he 
meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We will 
therefore evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of photographers at the 
very top of the field. In a final merits determination, we analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether it is sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability. 
We first note that while the regulation requires sustained acclaim in order to demonstrate extraordinary 
ability, the evidence indicates that acclaim for the Petitioner's work has been relatively short-lived. 
Although his work was initially recognized in 2010 with what the record indicates were lesser awards, 
he did not achieve higher-level national acclaim until 2015, with I I receiving nationally­
recognized awards and appearing in solo and group exhibitions, mainly in China. Also, it is only this 
earlier work that has been recognized by prizes or awards; the Petitioner's later work, including his 
book.__ ____ __. and the material created for exhibition at the I IMuseum, has received 
some level of media attention, but the evidence does not demonstrate that it has been a critical or 
commercial success. For instance, a portion of I I was posted on the English language 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
4 Id. 
5 
Matter of W-C-
website of Sina News, which the evidence indicates "aggregates feeds from other news providers," 
and a "report of tax" states that the book has sold slightly more than half of the 5000 copies printed. 
But this evidence, which is not accompanied by readership or comparative sales data, does not show 
that the media attention or book sales relating to this work reached a level sufficient to establish 
national or international acclaim. 
Similarly, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner's solo exhibition of J I at I I Center, 
and the display o ~-----------------~in a group exhibition at the I I D Museum, both received some coverage in arts media in China. However, these exhibits took 
place in 2016 and 2017, respectively, and thus do not establish that the display of the Petitioner's work 
has garnered national or international acclaim over a sustained period. 
In addition, although the evidence of media coverage confirms that the awards the Petitioner received 
forl I were recognized on the national level, it does not establish that those awards were top 
awards open to all professional photographers. Both the 2015 □New Talent Award and the 2016 I I Emerging Photographers Award are limited to young or previously unknown 
photographers, 5 thereby excluding more experienced or well-known artists from consideration. This 
evidence does not therefore establish that the Petitioner is one of that small percentage at the top of 
his field, as opposed to one of the top few young or emerging photographers. 
Upon review of all of the evidence in the record, it is apparent that the Petitioner's photography has 
been noticed and appreciated in arts circles in China, and to a lesser extent in the general public. This 
includes reference letters from experts in the field who praise his work, describe him as a "promising 
young artist," and predict that he would continue to produce exceptional photography in the United 
States. However, the evidence of record does not establish that he has sustained acclaim as a 
photographer, or that he has risen to be one of the few photographers at the very top of the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, but a review of the totality of the evidence does 
not establish that he has achieved the requisite sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage of photographers at the very top of the field. For these reasons, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
5 The "call for photos" for the I I Emerging Photographers A ward statef-1baf one requirement is that entrants 
"having [sic] no experience of solo exhibition," and similar evidence relating to theLJNew Talent Award indicates that 
eligible entrants must be Chinese, younger than 35 years old and have used a Canon camera. 
6 
Matter of W-C-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of W-C-, ID# 3817161 (AAO Aug. 19, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-S-M-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a digital graphics designer, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Beneficiary had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which he must meet at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that the 
Beneficiary meets at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate that a beneficiary has a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, a petitioner must provide documentation 
for an individual that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain 
media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if 
it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to a 
beneficiary's occupation. 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is a digital graphics designer with the petitioning organization. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary had met only one of the initial evidentiary 
criteria: leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Beneficiary also meets the following criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published 
material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii); and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Upon review 
of all of the evidence, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets the eligibility requirements of this criterion based 
on the q Innovation award received by his company, I I for their project, I I I The Petitioner asserts that awards "granted to a company ultimately are an honor to and 
testament of achievement of its founders" and therefore, "[the Beneficiary] was the recipient of' the 
award. The record contains articles and recommendation letters that confirm the Beneficiary's role as 
one of the company's three members and co-founders. Regarding the company's receipt of the 2010 D Innovation award, the Petitioner refers to a letter from I I the director of c=] 
2 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
Innovation. He states that "[w]e crowned [the Beneficiary's] team in 2010 as the winners of the 
competition." Though I I indicates thatc=]Innovation is "France's biggest competition of 
Design Thinking aid Oren Innovation[,]" the Petitioner has not provided supporting documentation 
to establish that the Innovation award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field. The Petitioner, for example, did not provide evidence, such as media articles, showing that 
winning this competition is tantamount to an award consistent with this regulatory criterion. 1 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains articles from various publications and websites, such as The Next Web, Venture 
Beat, Killer Startups, Obsession, Press Citron, and Silicon Maniacs. They discuss the Beneficiary's 
company,! I and its iPhone application that is described as a game that "involves a series of 
missions which you can choose to complete, by taking a photograph that fits a certain description or 
criteria." Users can create their own missions, encourage "other people to complete them, as well as 
complete other people's missions." While the articles reference the Beneficiary's role as co-founder 
and one of three members, they are not specifically about him. Rather, the articles discuss his 
company, only briefly mentioning the Beneficiary. For example, 'I I 
c===]" contains direct quotes from one of the company's other co-founders and members, I I 
r==:::::] but does not discuss the Beneficiary. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). As the 
Petitioner has not established that the articles are about the Beneficiary, we need not address whether 
the publications in which they appeared qualify under the criterion. 2 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record contains evidence, such as media articles and recommendation letters, showing that the 
Beneficiary has performed in a critical role for the Petitioner, an organization that has a distinguished 
reputation. Therefore, the Petitioner has demonstrated that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 In addition, we note that the evidence does not demonstrate the publications qualify as major media and they should be 
addressed in any future proceeding. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that the 
Beneficiary has earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those 
performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos 
v. US. Dept. o_f Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information 
for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grims on v. INS, 934 F. 
Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); 
Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player 
to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner indicates that at the time of the petition's filing in October 2017, the Beneficiary 
received an annual salary of $155,000. The record contains a letter from I I the co-founder 
and Senior Vice President of Operations for the Petitioner. I !confirmed the Beneficiary is 
employed as their Director of Design, and his salary was raised to $170,000 in April 2018. The 
Petitioner also submitted the Beneficiary's IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, that reflect 
earnings of $156,858 in 2017. Concerning the Beneficiary's job duties, I I stated that in his 
director role, he is "indispensable as a leader and mentor who imparts his vision to the junior 
designers" and it was his "successful effort to build an entire Department of Design" that led "to the 
change in his title from Chief Creative Designer to Director of Design." I I's letter indicates 
that the Beneficiary's duties are more closely aligned with a senior management position rather than 
the graphic design category. 
The Petitioner asserts that according to "[Department of Labor (DOL)] and industry data, [the 
Beneficiary] is paid a higher salary relative to others in his field." As evidence, the Petitioner refers 
to the DOL Office of Foreign Labor Certification Online Wage Library that shows the annual salary 
from June 2017 to July 2018 in the I IMetropolitan area ranged from $44,054 to $84,864 
for graphic designers and from $61,693 to $110,261 for multimedia artists and animators. The 
Petitioner also states that the DOL Career One Stop website reflects similar median salaries for graphic 
designers ($68,380) and multimedia artists and animators ($82,090). 
In addition, the Petitioner referred to survey data from Glassdoor, Linkedin, and Indeed as evidence 
that the Beneficiary "commands a high salary in relation to others in the field." For example the 
Petitioner claims that Glassdoor indicates the average annual salary of a graphic designer in theO 
I I Metropolitan area in 2018 was $73,367; Linkedin reflects the median base salary of"senior 
designer" was $100,000; and Indeed shows an average annual salary for a "senior graphic designer" 
as $92,928. 
However, as noted in the Director's denial, the comparative salary documentation in the record does 
not include data regarding average salaries for directors of graphic design, such as the Beneficiary, 
nor do they distinguish among differing levels of expertise, education, and years of work experience. 
Further, the 2018 Indeed documentation reflects salaries as high as $175,000 for senior digital graphic 
designers in the I I metropolitan area, which exceeds the Beneficiary's 201 7 salary of 
4 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
$155,000. Though the Petitioner contends on appeal that "the fact that highest paid Senior Digital 
Graphics Designers in 2018" are paid this amount proves that the Beneficiary's 2018 $170,000 salary 
is "a high salary" relative to others in the field, we disagree. As explained above, the evidence does 
not include sufficient comparative salary documentation for individuals with the Beneficiary's level 
of expertise and experience, and performing similar services as a director of graphic design, to show 
that his $155,000 annual salary at the time of filing satisfies the eligibility requirements of this 
criterion. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence showing that the Beneficiary 
has earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field and not 
just a salary that is above average in his field. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
In addition, we note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility because it has failed to submit the 
required initial evidence of either a qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least 
three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to folly address 
the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Beneficiary has the level of expertise required for the classification sought. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and 
alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
5 
Matter of F-S-M-C-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of F-S-M-C-, ID# 3718065 (AAO Aug. 19, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10322812 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an advertising senior account executive, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which she must meet 
at least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates her most recent employment as an executive account director au I I ~ in I I Florida. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h~ii). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that she judged the Latin 
Americanl__JAwards inl 12018 andO2019. In addition, the record contains evidence that 
the Petitioner served as the general account director in charge of all advertising teams for Argentina, 
Chile, and Peru for a distinguished advertising company in Argentina. Accordingly, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and leading or critical role criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets two additional criteria, relating to membership in 
associations and high salary.1 After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the 
Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains she meets this criterion based upon her membership in the 
~----------~l(AAM). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 2 Reviewed 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner initially submitted evidence related to a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and the lesser awards and published materials criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii), respectively, but did not satisfy these categories of evidence. The Petitioner does not contest 
these issues on appeal and therefore we deem them to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 
(BIA 2009). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
2 
in its totality, the evidence does not demonstrate that membership in AAM requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the Petitioner's field or 
discipline. 
Within the Petitioner's initial submission, she provided a July 2018 letter from,__ _____ ___, I I, AAM 's I I who certifies that the Petitioner has been admitted as an Active 
member of the AAM. He states that membership as an Active Member is by invitation-only and is 
"given to recognized I I personalities with more than 15 years of professional experience in 
the field, whose work has been recognized by the industry and is deemed to be of outstanding quality." 
He asserts that the AAM 's Membership Committee "is comprised of the most recognized I I 
professionals in the country." He further claims that the Membership Committee "following the 
criteria established by the association .... reviews the work and portfolio of the prospective Active 
Member to verify that they arel I professionals of eminence in the industry who have attained 
widespread distinction in the field, which is sustained over a minimum period of years." He provides 
that the Petitioner met the membership criteria because "she is known in the industry as one of the 
bestl !Account Executives in the country."3 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), she provided a copy of 
a certificate from AAM, signed by I I as well as AAM's president, vice­
presidents, and secretary, welcoming the Petitioner as a l I Partner" and 
"[r]ecognizing her trajectory, experience, knowledge, and interest in collaborating with the Board of 
Directors, developing and sharing content with associates and actively participating in AAM 
activities." 4 The Petitioner also submitted an email from I !stating that the AAM 
does not "have a legal statute with the regulation of how we select the members of the AAM" and that 
"[t]he election is defined by the board of directors made up of members with high experience in the 
industry based on the call of very outstanding and extraordinary professionals due to their trajectory 
and outstanding role in the industry compared to their peers." The Petitioner's RFE response also 
included screenshots from AAM 's website, showing the photographs, names, and titles of the 18 
members of AAM's 2018-2019 Board of Directors and Staff, and indicating their employment as 
executive officers and I I directors for companies including Molinas Rio de la Plata, Conosur 
Mastercard, Red Link, and South American Campari. 
Upon review, the documentation submitted does not establish that to become a member of AAM 
"recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields" must judge the Petitioner's 
"outstanding achievements," as required under the plain language of the criterion.5 The record does 
not reflect information regarding who evaluated the Petitioner's qualifications before selecting her as 
a member or whether the individual(s) who evaluated her qualifications are "national or international 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 Although l~~----~I also claims that "[j]ust by being the winner of c1 I , I and ac=J is enough to 
confirm [the Petitioner] as one of the best in her industry," as noted by the Director, the Petitioner's evidence did not 
establish that she was the recipient of those awards. 
4 We note that the date at the bottom of the certificate copy is not legible. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6-7. 
3 
experts in their disciplines or fields." For instance, the Petitioner did not identify the members on 
AAM's Membership Committee and provide documentation establishing the expertise and recognition 
of those individuals judging her for admission. The Petitioner must document that she meets each 
element in the plain language of the criterion. The Petitioner must, therefore, provide some 
documentation from the association relevant to the nature of who is responsible for making the 
selections and the qualifications of membership application reviewers. 
In addition, although,__ _______ __, asserts that the Membership Committee evaluates 
prospective members "following the criteria established by the association," the record lacks evidence 
that corroborates the actual selection criteria for membership in the AAM. The Petitioner also has not 
shown that the requirement provided by I lthat prospective members are 
"recognized I J personalities with more than 15 years of professional experience in the field" 
is tantamount to imposing an "outstanding achievement" requirement for membership. Instead, that 
membership requirement refers to a minimum number of years of experience in thcl lfield, 
which is not tantamount to outstanding achievements. 6 Further, the record does not establish the 
process by which prospective members are evaluated. Although! I indicates that 
membership is reserved for applicants "whose work has been recognized by the industry and is deemed 
to be of outstanding quality," who are 'I I professionals of eminence" and "widespread 
distinction," his statements are not adequately supported by objective evidence of how these factors 
are considered or weighed. For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
she satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that her salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.7 The Petitioner's initial submission 
did not address this criterion. Within the Petitioner's RFE response, she submitted copies of monthly 
payroll statements from,__ _______ __. for the period from July 2017 through June 2018, 
showing the following earnings figures in Argentine pesos: 
July 2017 
August 2017 
September 2017 
October 2017 
November 2017 
December 2017 
January 2018 
February 2018 
March 2018 
April 2018 60,240 
61,016 
2,441 + 58,982 
61,016 + 50,000 bonus 
2,441 
58,982 +2,034 + 30,711 + 2,441 
61,016 
61,016 
61,016 
42,711 +21,966 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion 
that the alien's memberships in the associations were not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in 
a particular field). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
4 
May 2018 
June 2018 61,016 
61,016 + 32,338 
First, we note that the above amounts earned by the Petitioner include remuneration other than salary, 
in the form of a bonus in the amount of 50,000 pesos. According to the plain language of the regulation, 
the Petitioner must demonstrate that any other remuneration separate from her salary as a senior account 
executive is "significantly high." Although the Petitioner provides comparative salary information, 
discussed below, she does not argue, nor does the record include, evidence demonstrating that her 
additional bonus is significantly high in relation to others. Thus, we will evaluate the record to 
determine whether the Petitioner commanded a high salary (742,399 pesos annually or an average 
monthly salary of 61,867 pesos) compared to others in her field without considering her bonus as part 
of her salary. 
The Petitioner provided a chart from the,__ __________ _, a labor union inl I 
~~I Argentina, indicating the minimum monthly wage for several occupations in the advertising 
field. This documentation shows that the "minimum wage" for October 2018 for a "senior account 
executive" was 30,885 pesos. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that this evidence indicates she "earned 
more than double" the "average" monthly salary of a senior account executive for the same period. 
Here, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient comparative data regarding the compensation of others 
in the field. The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the minimum salaries of senior account 
executives. The submission of "minimum" wage data from a single union, and the Petitioner's 
assertions regarding "average" wage data, does not establish that the Petitioner commands a high 
salary in relation to others in her field. See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Commr. 
1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson 
v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Further, the Petitioner did not submit any 
documentary evidence supporting her claims regarding the "average" salary of a senior account 
executive in Argentina. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
5 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9920114 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a postdoctoral researcher in the field of biomedical science, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a senior postdoctoral fellow in the field of biomedical science 
atl I University School ofMedicine'sl I Louisiana.1 Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates that he has peer-reviewed 
manuscripts for several journals including PLoS ONE and Bioscience Reports. In addition, the record 
contains evidence that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles published in journals including the 
Journal of Applied Microbiology, Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology, American 
Journal of Physiology, Circulation: Cardiovascular Genetics, and Cell Cycle. Accordingly, we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the requirements of the judging and scholarly articles 
criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the requirements of the criterion relating to original 
contributions of major significance in his field, discussed below. After reviewing all the evidence in 
the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field.2 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
1 See the Petitioner's curriculum vitae and employment verification letter submitted at initial filing. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that although funded and published work may be 
"original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
As a preliminary matter, we will address the Petitioner's claim that the Director's decision "imputed 
additional regulations throughout these proceedings that are not contained anywhere in the [ Act or the 
regulations]." The Petitioner, however, does not cite to specific examples in the Director's decision 
where he "imputed additional regulations." Instead, the Petitioner cites generally to Kazarian and 
Gulen v. Chertoff, 2008 WL 2779001 (E.D. Pa. 2008) in arguing that the Director unilaterally imposed 
novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In 
contrast to those decisions, the Director did not improperly require, as in Kazarian, that university 
dissertations reviewed by the Petitioner be from a university with which he was not affiliated to satisfy 
the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), or evidence that other scholars had 
cited to his publications to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Nor did the Director 
improperly determine, as in Gulen, that the Petitioner's publications were not scholarly and did not 
satisfy the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) based solely on their intended 
audience. 3 Rather, the Director's decision concluded that the Petitioner's evidence satisfied the 
regulatory requirements of both those criteria. The Petitioner's reference to the Kazarian and Gulen 
decisions is therefore not persuasive. 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through recommendation 
letters praising him for his contributions, as discussed below. Here, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, and point to the citation of his 
work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of the projects on which he worked, they do not 
show how his research and findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact 
on the field rises to the level required by this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided several expert opinion letters that address his research, including one fromO I l a professor of biomedical informatics at the University I I School of 
Medicine, who states that the Petitioner is "an outstanding scientist with impressive achievements in 
the field of molecular biology associated withl I" specificallv, in understanding 
the role o enes in the develo ment of I ] He provides that 
genetic vanat10n in.__~-----~-----~ as been reported to be associated with! I §regulation and.__ ____ ~ disease, and that the Petitioner has worked on resequencing the 
ene for identification of novel variants that may have clinical implication of I I 
and I ~ disease. He asserts that the Petitioner has gained "international 
recognition" for his original research on thel ~ in American, African American, 
and Han Chinese American healthy subjects. He states that the Petitioner's 2013 article in Circulation: 
~vascular Genetics, showing that'-----------------~ polymorphisms 
L___J were novel, advanced the fielrs understanding of these genetic variants in the clinical 
implication of.__ ______ ___,and _ r disease risk, and he notes that he cited the 
Petitioner's findings in his own article in Genome Biology. 
3 Further, in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court (such as with 
Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decision of a United States district court in cases arising within the 
same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will 
be given due consideration when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter 
oflaw. Id. at 719. 
3 
,,__ _______ a pharmacology professor who worked with the Petitioner at the I.__ ___ ~ 
laboratory, states that the Petitioner's research "defined for the first time genetic 
Lv_a_r~ia-t1~·o_n_i~n-t~h-e===== in 3 ethnic populations by resequencin~ ~" He asserts that the results of 
the Petitioner's resequencing and functional genomic studies" reatly improved our understanding of 
the clinical implications of these genetic variants i disease risk and the effect of drugs 
that mediate their effect via the system." Regarding the examination of the 
relationship betweenLJan~_~failure published in the Petitioner's 2016 Cell Cycle article, I lstates that in demonstrating "thatl lprotectj ~ from I I via inhibition 
of both cytosoliq l[the Petitioner's] findings lead to new drugs for treating~! -~ 
failure in a more efficient and effective way." He does not indicate, however, that new drugs or other 
therapies for treating heart failure have been designed or developed based on the Petitioner's research. 
a molecular biologist atl ,Is ain, .__ ____________ _, 
states that the Petitioner has made "extraordinary contributions to the study of ti-""'-~----, 
I-,-----,---' " He provides that the Petitioner "found that th is active ~---,-----,---=-------,-----:-' against the Gram-negative plant pathogen ~-------;=====1--..--------,,.---------1 which causes 
bacterial blight, the most destructive bacterial disease.___~' He states that the findings published 
in the Petitioner's 2001 Journal of Applied Microbiology article "open a new research field of the 
genetic engineering of resistance to bacterial blight I I and for the design of newl I 
biocontrol agents." He indicates that he cited to Petitioner's work in his 2011 FEMS Microbiology 
Review article. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml lhis collea~University. 
Noting that individuals with~ I infection,L___} states that the 
Petitioner's recent work has demonstrated that the ene editin technolo CRISPR/Cas9 can 
efficiently mediate the editing of the L_ __ _,----,_ _______ ---r---.--_J resulting in 
knockout ofD, and "paves the way to treat.__ _ _, infected patients wit ~-_, ockout MSCs." 
He also asserts that the Petitioner "made remarkable achievements in establishing a novel model for 
structure and function analysis of the gene . . . . thereby facilitating development and 
validation of new drugs targetin....._ __ _,mutations." 
Overall, the expert letters have not elaborated or discussed whether the Petitioner's findings have been 
implemented beyond informing the research of other scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent 
of their application. While the letters praise the Petitioner's research as original, valuable and 
promising, they have not sufficiently detailed in what ways his studies have already advanced the state 
of research in this field or elaborated on how the Petitioner's work has already impacted the wider 
field beyond the teams of researchers who have directly cited his articles. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 5 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 
F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions 
have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that his articles have collectively garnered 294 citations at the 
time of filing. As it relates to the citation of his work, the Director indicated that "the field in which 
[the Petitioner] works ... shows many articles with many more citations than [the Petitioner's] articles, 
casting doubt on [his] claim that [his] articles have been a contribution of major significance in the 
field." The Petitioner submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar and from the 
China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) China Integrated Knowledge Resources System, 
which provides comparable information for Chinese language publications that cite to his work. 6 The 
evidence from Google Scholar reflects that his four highest cited articles received 38 (Journal of 
Applied Microbiology), 27 (Journal of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology), 12 (American 
Journal of Physiology) and 10 (Circulation: Cardiovascular Genetics) citations, respectively. 7 The 
documentation from CNKI indicates that two articles published in the Journal of Agricultural 
Biotechnology received 198 and 9 citations, respectively. But this evidence does not show that the 
impact of his work on the overall field of biomedical science or related fields rises to the level of an 
original contribution of major significance. Highly-cited publications alone are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as the number of 
citations for a given article often does not provide sufficient context to establish the impact or 
importance of a given researcher's work in the field. That context must be provided by other evidence 
in the record. 
We acknowledge, however, that a petitioner may present evidence that his articles "have provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a 
goodly number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field, may be probative 
of the significance of [his] contributions to the field of endeavor. "8 In this case, the Petitioner has not 
provided evidence that would, for example, allow us to compare his citations for individual articles to 
other similarly, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of ma·or si nificance. The 
Petitioner has demonstrated that his most cited English language article is ' 
published in 2001 in Journal of Applied Microbiology. While the Petitioner submitted corroborating 
evidence in the form of an expert opinion letter that briefly addresses his research in this area, that 
evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner's research 
is regarded as an original contribution of major significance that has remarkably impacted or 
influenced his field. 
Further, the record included published articles, including international articles, that cited to his work 
in support of his claim that other scientists have relied on his research. A review of those articles, 
6 We note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work, and claims that his 
overall citation rate is high. do not demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely cited and relied upon that it is 
considered to have made a major impact in his field. In general, the comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to 
others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits 
determination if the Director determined he met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F .3d at 11 15. 
7 The Google Scholar list indicated that his remaining article published in Cell Cycle did not receive any citations. The 
Petitioner did not specify how many citations, if any, for each of his individual articles contained self-citations. Moreover, 
in response to the Director's request for evidence and on appeal, the Petitioner submits an updated Google Scholar list 
reflecting an increase of citations to his individual articles. The Petitioner did not demonstrate how many of the additional 
citations occurred in papers published prior to or at the time of initial filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 
though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to his work. 9 For instance, the Petitioner provided an article titled I I 
~----------------------~ (Cancer Letters), in which the authors 
cite to the Petitioner's Journal o Cancer Research and Clinical Oncolo : article to su ort their 
statement that 
However, the article does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from 
the other 118 papers cited in the article. Moreover, the paper does not indicate that the Petitioner's 
article is authoritative or otherwise viewed as being majorly significant in the field. While it is likely 
that the Petitioner's published research has incrementally advanced the science in his field, which is 
reasonably expected of research deemed worthy of publication, his publication record does not 
establish how he has generated widespread commentary or acceptance and application of his findings, 
nor does the evidence establish that his published studies have advanced the field in a significant way. 
As a result, the Petitioner has not shown how his published original research has made an impact that 
rises to the level of "major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also provided rankings which appear on the website of Scimago Journal & Country 
Rank for several journals that have published his work and articles that cited to his work. The 
Petitioner asserts that the journal ranking of those journals sufficiently establish their impact. The 
impact of a given journal is not persuasive evidence of the impact of every article published in that 
journal. A publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall 
citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or the impact of research on the field or that every 
article published in a highly ranked journal automatically indicates a contribution of major 
significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established that publication in a highly ranked journal alone 
demonstrates a contribution of major significance in the field. As stated above, the record does not 
contain evidence that the Petitioner's published articles have garnered widespread citations or other 
response in the academic field. 
The Petitioner further emphasizes that his research was cited in several articles and press releases 
published inl 12015 on the websites of ScienceDaily, TechTimes, NaturalNews, 
DoctorsHealthPress, MedicineNews, UKExpress, and PharmacyLearningNetwork. Those articles, 
which do not mention the Petitioner, report on the recent publication of his American Journal of 
jhysiolof article, containing the findings of th~ f,niversity research team regarding the risk 
o as a preventative measure against I disease given their I I 
cell function. The Petitioner did not show that such limited media coverage indicates an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. For example, the evidence did not indicate that his 
research and findings resulted in widespread coverage and interest. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. Considered together, 
the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, the citation statistics, 
and the reference letters from his colleagues and other experts, establishes that the Petitioner's 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 
2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in 
the field as a whole). 
10 Although we discuss a sample a11icle, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance in his field. 
Therefore, he has not met this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and authored scholarly articles, 
the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his 
field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17944404 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research scientist in the field of chemistry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that he met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, 
of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets three additional evidentiary criteria and is otherwise 
eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Pe~icates employment since 2018 as a senior scientist with thel I company.e=J D in L___J California. The record reflects that he holds a Ph.D. in chemistry fromc=J 
University. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, related to scholarly articles. We agree. The record reflects that the Petitioner has authored 
articles published in professional publications including Science, Nature Energy, and Joule, thus 
satisfying the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director 
erred in concluding that he did not satisfy the evidentiary criteria relating to published material, 
original contributions, and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), and (viii), 
respectively . After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner does not 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), as required. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted several articles, however, he determined that 
the articles are primarily about two of the Petitioner's published works rather than about the Petitioner. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the submitted online articles satisfy this criterion, as they "are 
about [the Petitioner] and his team, covering work that is extensively credited to him throughout the 
2 
Initial Filing and the Request for Evidence." In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 1 
The Petitioner provided several online articles dated 2015 by Scientific American 
(www.scientificaamerican.com, citing Chemistry World as its source), Forbes (www.forbes.com), 
National Geographic (www.news.nationalgeographic.com), Science Daily (www.sciencedaily.com), 
(e) Science News (esciencenews.com), and United Press International (www.upi.com). Although the 
articles are about the Petitioner's research in his 2015 Science article regarding the development of an 
.__ ___________ __. the articles are not about him. Instead, the Petitioner is briefly 
mentioned in the articles from Science Daily, (e) Science News, and United Press International, as 
discovering the newl I as a graduate student atl I working with post-doctoral 
fello~ I an~ I. The Petitioner is never mentioned in the body 
of the articles from Scientific American, Forbes, and National Geographic. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires the published material to be about the alien relating to his work rather than 
articles reporting on his work. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Further, the items from Science Daily 
and ( e) Science News do not include the "author of the material," as required by the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains several additional online articles dated 2016 published by Science Daily 
(www.sciencedaily.com), Engadget (www.engadget.com), News Atlas (www.newsatlas.com), Yahoo 
News Singapore (www.sg.news.yahoo.com), Financial Express (www.financialexpress.com), and 
Research & Development World (www.rdmag.com, citing Engadget and Harvard Gazette as sources). 
Although the articles are about the Petitioner's research in his 2016 Nature EnerJzy article regarding 
the development of al ~ l the articles are 
not about him. Instead, the articles briefly mention the Petitioner as the article's first author and 
contain the same quote from the Petitioner, stating that the r'..=e~s.:::ea=rc::c~h;....:tc=e=am~'....1' =------------' 
.__ _____ ___, but ended up developing a new class ot1 I that should be simple 
to make and inexpensive to manufacture in large quantities. Although he is referenced, the articles 
are not about the Petitioner and do not otherwise meet this regulatory criterion. Here, again, the 
Petitioner provided articles only about his work instead of articles about him relating to his work. In 
addition, the Petitioner is never mentioned in the body of the articles from News Atlas and Research 
& Development World. Further, the items from Science Daily, Yahoo News Singapore, and Financial 
Express do not include the author of the material, as required. 
Moreover, none of the aforementioned articles was accompanied by supporting evidence 
demonstrating that they were published in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
1 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulat01y criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.2 For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner claims that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field, as 
evidenced by his published research, citation record, letters from experts in the field, patent 
applications, and other evidence. 
Although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his research through 
recommendation letters praising him for his contributions, the authors do not provide specific 
examples of contributions that are indicative of major significance. 3 In general, the letters recount the 
Petitioner's research and findings, indicate their publication in journals, and point to the citation of his 
work by others. Although they reflect the novelty of his work, they do not show how his research and 
findings have been considered of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level 
required by this criterion. 
'--------~ a professor of chemistry and materials science atl I University, indicates 
that the Petitioner's work as a Ph.D. student with his research group built on his team's prior discovery 
of a '----------.============r that displayed better performance than metal ions 
currently in use in.__ _________ __. He explains that the Petitioner's published papers 
reported on the first high-performance and non-toxid lbased onl l 
Specifically, the Petitioner's article in Science reported on the use of I I I in the existin~ I while his subsequent articles in Nature Energy and 
Joule demonstr i ely, high-performancg ~ based on a new family ofll I I calledt----,____Jnd even lowerl I materials. He provide~ 
separate team at mt upon the Petitioner's work and showed that it is possible to implement 
a much cheaper in without compromising performance. ~ ~serts that leading ~-~~technology companies, such asl ] , and ~ have expressed interest in "potential commercialization of [the Petitioner's] novel.__ _ __. 
chemistry." Whilel !describes the originality of the Petitioner's research findings and 
indicates they have generated commercial interest he does not discuss in detail how the work has 
already remarkably impacted the field or provide examples of specific applications attributed to the 
Petitioner's work. 
The Petitioner provided letters from representatives of several companies with interest in his novel I !chemistry. For instanc~'---------'~ CTO ofi I indicates that 
on a recentlY, completed! lproject to develop lower cost membranes for the next-based upon the Petitioner's Nature Ener; article he collaborated with the Petitioner's Ph.D. advisors 
generation ofl O I ~ a senior researcher a~ I 
2 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that although funded and published work may be "original," 
this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
(Japan), indicates his company has been testing the Petitioner'sl I technology "for 
commercialization purposes" and that the Petitioner's! I chemistry "is positioned to reduce the 
cost of the entir~ lsvstem." I I indicates he cited to the Petitioner's Science article and 
used the Petitioner'~ I design idea as part of his own published study of a I I 
I lbasedon~-----~ 
Similarly,! I at the University o~ !indicates he cited to the Petitioner's Science 
article in his own work in 2017 which verified that em lo ment of molecules 
s1 nificantly enhanced the .__ ___________________________ __, 
,,__ __ ..,_in=-.:c"""omparison to conventional metal ion-based systems. He provides examples of the "novel 
concepts" of research teams in Denmark and Switzerland who have cited to the 
Petitioner's work." However, neithe~ JI I, nor I I further elaborated or discussed 
whether the Petitioner's findings have been implemented beyond informing the research of other 
scientists in the same field, and if so, the extent of their application. They did not specify how the 
Petitioner's research toward the development and commercialization of~---------~ I lbased onl lis deemed a majorly significant contribution to the field. 
An additional letter froml I a professor at .__ _____ --,--___ ___._,University I I asserts that the Petitioner's work "has changed the directii"'°"~~-,_ __ ___J research" 
and "gmded some ofmy own research as well as that ofmy colleagues.'.__ __ _.states that he cited 
to the Petitioner's articles ublished in Science and Nature Ener in his 2017 review article titled 
~-----------------------.---------.--~publishedinACS 
Energr Letters. He explains that his review article "evaluated 1 ~---___._, ........ ........,.........,,gies ranging from 
earlyl I systems ... to more recent systems based on.__ ______ ~, such as the ones 
developed by [the Petitioner] and his team," and he chose to highlight the work of the Petitioner and 
his team published in Science "as he made useful contributions to our understanding of1 I 
I I" specificall how a~----------- "reaches up to a high cell voltage of 
1.2V." Although escribes the Petitioner's research as "groundbreaking" and having 
"changed the direction o ~----~ research" he has not sufficiently detailed in what ways the 
Petitioner has advanced the state of research in his field or already remarkably impacted their shared 
field, or provided examples of specific applications attributed to the Petitioner's work. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided two letters from the Petitioner's employer,! ~ Within its 
initial submission, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml 11 rs CEO, who 
credits the Petitioner with leading the company's I IR&D effort in d~signing components of 
itsl I technology, thd ~' which he claims is "poised to completely 
redefine the technologies available on the market toda ." He state, that the Petitionrr imp~oved the 
company's original I I design, addin ~------~-chemicals, and I I to increase the commercial cycle life. He asserts that, with the 
Petitioner's expertise, the company's........,.---,---~ technology is "the most advance~ I 
technology that is commercially available" and "is proving immense~lar with companies that 
are developing next-generation mobilit a lications." He claims thatL___Jis partnering thel I 
and I I on supplying program, working with leading 
companies in th industr and that id lwas selected to be 
incorporated into the next-generation.__ _________ __. technologies. He indicates that 
5 
I I is in discussions wit~ !manufacturers to explore their interest in licensing and 
potentially acquiring its I I technology. 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided 
an additional letter froml I in which he asserts that in June 2020, the performance of the 
technology developed by the Petitioner forL-,--___. ......... ,------------.----'was "validated 
to be more successful than every other recen advancement on the market" based on testing 
performed by the Department of Ener DOE an~-------------'""--;and that in August 
202Q I was acquired b "the bigges ~-----~ in the EU," based 
upon the Petitioner's novel~ _____ ___.contributions. 
We note that the DOEc=Jtesting and the acquisition ofl I byl I occurred after 
the initial filing of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Regardless, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that a company's negotiation to potentially commercialize his research demonstrates that 
the field already recognizes his work as being majorly significant. Nor did the Petitioner show that 
the commercialization of research work bl compares automatically evidences contributions of major 
significance in the field. Even if1 I. , orl I commercialized the Petitioner's 
inventions, he did not establish the impact or influence of his work in the overall field rather than 
limited to the company. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the result of those companies' 
commercialization, such as high sales or widespread usability of a product or application. Although 
others opine that the Petitioner's work shows promise, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how his work 
already qualifies as a contribution of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential 
impacts. Here, the significant nature of his novel.__ _____ ____, contributions has yet to be 
determined. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the novelty and utility of the Petitioner's 
research studies without providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent 
with major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 Letters that lack specifics 
and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). The authors' 
assertions in the above-referenced letters do not explain how the Petitioner's research findings have 
been widely implemented or relied upon by others in the field or establish that the Petitioner's work 
has had a demonstrable impact on the field as a whole commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance. 
Regarding his patent applications, the Petitioner submitted evidence showinJ he is a co-inventor on 
two patent applications, for al and a I I I I respectively. In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but 
does not necessarily establish it as a contribution of major significance in the field. Here, the 
Petitioner's patent applications show the originality of his work, but they did not demonstrate that it 
resulted in a contribution of major significance in the field. 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix. 
5 Id. 
6 
The Petitioner also submits his publication and citation record from Google Scholar. Regarding his 
citations, the Petitioner initially provided evidence from Google Scholar reflecting 884 cumulative 
citations. Specifically, the record shows that his four highest cited articles received 422 (Science), 179 
(Nature Energy), 124 (Nature Materials), and 60 (Joule), citations, respectively. 6 This evidence, 
however, does not show that the impact of his work on the overall field of chemistry rises to the level 
of an original contribution of major significance. Citation to one's work alone is insufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as a citation ranking 
does not provide sufficient context to determine the impact or importance of a given researcher's work 
in the field. 7 Rather, we must consider whether the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly 
number) in a citation index which cite [his] work as authoritative in the field."8 
The Petitioner has presented samples of articles that have cited to his work. A review of those articles, 
though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the 
authors who cited to his work. For instance the Petitioner rovided a artial article titled I I 
~------------------------------~ (Joule), in 
which the authors cited to his 2016 Nature Energy article.9 However, the article does not distinguish 
or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the over 63 other cited papers. Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown how any of his published articles have an impact that rises to the level of "major 
significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that his publications have been cited in several review articles. One 
of the submitted partial review articles, titled.__ ____________________ __. 
.__ _____ ~(Angewandte Chemie), cites to the Petitioner's 2015 Science article among at least 
176 other articles. While the inclusion of the Petitioner's research in this and other review articles is 
noted, and the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has made original contributions to what appears 
to be a very active field of research, we cannot determine that every publication cited in a review 
article is indicative of an individual contribution of major significance, and the evidence does not 
distinguish the Petitioner's publications from the many others cited. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of his articles in highly 
ranked journals, as well as presentations at reputable conferences, establish that the field considers his 
research to be an original contribution of major significance. A publication that bears a high ranking 
or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's 
influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not 
6 The Petitioner's remaining three articles and two patent applications, published between 2013 and 2019, garnered 
between 1 and 40 citations. 
7 Further, we note that evidence that summarizes citations to the Petitioner's entire body of published work does not 
demonstrate that any specific work of his is so widely cited and relied upon that it is considered to have made a major 
impact in his field. Comparison of the Petitioner's cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in 
determining whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination. 
8 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
9 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not 
established that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of 
major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to our non-precedent decision concerning a virologist who petitioned 
under this classification. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
Nevertheless, we note that the Petitioner emphasizes that, in the referenced decision, "the petitioner 
demonstrated his significant contributions through reference letters describing their use and 
implementation in the field, and corroborating documentation." We agree that the non-precedent 
decision highlights the fact that we placed significant weight on the statements of experts who clearly 
described how the petitioner's scientific contributions were both original and of major significance in 
their field. However, for the reasons discussed previously, the expert opinion letters submitted in this 
matter did not contain sufficient probative analysis to establish that the Petitioner's research findings, 
individually or collectively, have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
The Petitioner also maintains on appeal that reports by media outlets demonstrate that he "has made 
significant contributions to his field." As discussed previously, the record contains several articles, 
some of which briefly mention the Petitioner, that discuss some of his teams' research findings. For 
example, online articles from Scientific American, National Geographic, and (e) Science News, report 
the findings of his Science article regarding the development ofl I at the 
time of the publication of that work in September 2015. Additional online articles by Science Daily, 
Engadget, and Research & Development World report the findings of the Petitioner's Nature Enerf[F 
article regarding the development of~~----------------------~[ 
at the time of the publication of that work in July 2016. The Petitioner did not show, however, that 
such limited media coverage indicates an original contribution of major significance in the field. For 
example, it did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's research and findings resulted in widespread 
coverage and interest. 
Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citations to the Petitioner's published findings, 
patent applications, citation statistics, and the reference letters from his fellow chemists and other 
experts, establishes that the Petitioner has been productive, and that his published data and findings 
have been relied upon by others in their own research. It does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made a contribution of major significance in the field of chemistry. Therefore, he has not met this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the scholarly articles criterion, he does not meet the 
claimed criteria regarding published material and original contributions of major significance. While 
he argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.10 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has conducted research and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12089918 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, who states that she is a business executive in the fitness equipment industry, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, either 
through a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award), or by submitting 
evidence that satisfies at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 
In conducting routine verification checks, we consulted the U.S. Department of State's Consolidated 
Consular Database (CCD). According to CCD records, the Petitioner applied for a B 1/B2 visa at the U.S. 
Consulate in Beijing in July 2015. She stated on her Form DS-160, Nonimmigrant Visa Application, that 
her occupation at that time was "homemaker" and that her most recent period of employment had ended 
in 2008. This information contradicts the Petitioner's clai} that she had been employed as the general 
manager of Chinese fitness equipment distributoJ ____ since at least 2010 and that she has a record 
of sustained acclaim as a business executive in the fitness equipment industry based on that employment. 
It also calls into question the (eliability I of much of the documentary evidence in the record which 
mentions her employment with 
Accordingly , as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i), we issued a notice of intent to dismiss in order 
to advise the Petitioner of the derogatory information and to provide her an opportunity for rebuttal. 
Routine service consists of mailing the notice by ordinary mail addressed to the affected party and his 
or her attorney or representative of record at his or her last known address. 8 C.F.R. § 103.8(a)(l)(i) . 
Petitioners who have filed an application or petition with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) but have not yet received a decision ( a "pending" case) should notify USCIS of any change 
of address as soon as possible after moving. We sent the NOID to the Petitioner at the address she 
provided on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. The notice was returned as undeliverable. 
The post office indicated that there was no forwarding address. A review of USCIS systems indicates 
that the Petitioner did not provide a new address to USCIS after filing the appeal. 
A benefit request may be denied as abandoned, denied based on the record, or denied for both reasons 
if a petitioner does not respond to a request for evidence or a notice of intent to deny by the required 
date. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l3)(i). Therefore, we will dismiss the appeal as abandoned based on the 
Petitioner's failure to respond to the properly issued notice of intent to dismiss. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed as abandoned under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l3). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20930606 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 19, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jazz percussionist and music instructor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l l 53(b)(lXA). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish that 
he has national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5 (h)(3 )(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaiav.Beers,4F. Supp.3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C.2013);Rijalv. USCJS, 772F. Supp.2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a percussionist who has perfonned with the banJ I for several years and has 
been involved with music festivals in his native Georgia. He states that he intends to continue to 
perform and record as a jazz percussionist in the United States while also instructing other 
percussionists. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about him, his participation as a 
judge of the work of others, and the display of his work at artistic showcases. We agree that the 
Petitioner has met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
When conducting a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. 
In his final merits determination, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established his 
national or international acclaim and that he was one of the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. He also concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted clear evidence that he was coming to 
the United States to work in his field of expertise per the requirement at section 203(b )(1 )(ii) of the 
Act, and that his entry would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his final merits determination and did not consider the 
entirety of the record. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree that the Director 
failed to consider the totality of the evidence in his final merits dete1mination, focusing instead only 
2 
on evidence submitted in support of qualifying criteria. We will therefore review the record de nova 
and consider whether the entirety of the record demonstrates the Petitioner's eligibility as a person of 
extraordinary ability. 
As noted in the Director's decision, the Petitioner submitted evidence of an article about him and his 
work as a drummer which was published on the website of the Georgian version o~ I magazine 
in 2020. The aiiicle describes his career across different musical genres and his plans for work(ng inl 
the United States. Also submitted were rher pulblished materials, including a biography of §the singer who performs with on the web re of audio eauinment manufacturer 
presumably as a sponsored artist), and a review of I album 
blished on the website www.pennyblackmusic.com.uk. While the Petitioner is mentioned 
as the drummer f 011 fin these articles, their main focus is on the perfomiance ofl I 
and they do not single out the Petitioner for his expertise or skill as a percussionist as they do for her 
as a singer. We note that the Petitioner criticizes the Director's analyses of this evidence, arguing that 
the INA' s requirement of "extensive documentation" in support of this classification is not merely a 
numerical standard but also one of quality. USCIS policy is clear in stating that both the quantity and 
quality of evidence in the record is considered in the final merits determination. See 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(2). But the Petitioner has not shown that aiiicles that merely mention his name and 
are published on websites about which no information is provided are of sufficient quality to suppmt 
his claim of eligibility. 
Another item discussed in the Director's decision but not in the final merits determination was his 
receipt of an award, the I 12018" for "Best Drummer." The evidence of this award 
includes a certificate, identifying the awarding organization asl lin II Russia and a photograph of a statuette with an ille "ble la ue. A letter frortj I 
c===]who names himself as the General Director Company, describes the 
genesis of a music award related to thel I Club in~--~ hich he states the Petitionerreceived 
in 2018, but he does not name the title of the award or the award cate ory, nor does he claim to have 
any relationship with the.__ ___________ ___, o,rL-----'" .................................................................... ........_,,e from 
the website www.minikult.com presents a description of theL....r----------,. ____ ___Jand its 
relationship withl I Club but makes no mention of the~-----~or any other award. 
This evidence casts doubt upon the Petitioner's receipt of the claimed award, and even ifhe did receive 
it, does not indicate that it represents acclaim for his musicianship beyond a single music club. 
also wrote an additional letter in which he claims that I I published 6 
albums for.__ ________ ~..,...........and "held more than 700 concerts in Russia" from 2006 to 
201 7. He provides a list of royalties for the Petitioner for each of these albums, ranging from $30,000 
to $40,000, and also states that in concert performances from 2013 to 201 7, he earned between $65,000 
and $90,000peryear. As the record is otherwise absent of anyinformationregardingl I 
orl I let alone his first-hand knowledge of the Petitioner's earnings, this information is 
insufficient to demonstrate the level of the Petitioner's earnings. While the evidence also includes 
copies of four agreements between the Petitioner and the I I in 
2018 and 2019 for concerts in which the Petitioner was to have been paid between $1800 and $2200, 
this evidence does not show his total earnings over a specific period of time. Further, without evidence 
which puts the Petitioner's earnings in context with that of other musicians, the record does not 
demonstrate that his earnings are indicative of acclaim orputhim among the few at the top of his field. 
3 
Additional reference letters in the record include one written byl I Art~ctor 
of th~ I Theater. He states that he met the Petitioner in 2007 at theL___JJazz 
Festival, where he "performedatth...._~----.....a+--~--___.describes tw · · 
he collaborated with the Petitioner: th....._..-----,-........,........Jfilm award presenta~t_io_n....,_a_n_d ________ ~ 
as part of the World Economic Forum i ~-~ Switzerland. Although~----~ makes clear 
that the Petitioner performed as a drummer at these events, the role he played beyond that is vaguely 
described. For instance, forthel laward he states that he collaborated with the Petitioner 
"on linking effectively various musicians, singers, songwriters, lyricists, composers, and their fan­
bases together, which enabled us to successfully work toward a common production goal." In addition, 
neither description specifies when these collaborations happened, or whether they happened more than 
once. Reference letters such as this which lack details and make general and expansive statements 
about a petitioner's accomplishments, and are not supported by documentary evidence, are not 
persuasive. See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-
part-f-chapter-2. 
Two more reference letters describe the Petitioner's role in music festivals. I I 
Director of th~ I states that the Petitioner has been involved with thd I Festival 
in Georgia since 2004, helping to identify those who have preserved Georgian folk music and bringing 
the music to the attention of a national audience. I I also writes that the Petitioner has 
created the music which accompanies the Festival's advertisements aired in Georgia and abroad, and 
has voluntarily provided music instruction for underprivileged children. In addition, the record 
includes a certificate given to the Petitioner by I I in 2019 "for his outstanding 
contribution to the development of the festival." 
Similarly J I of the I I Jazz Festival in Russia states that from 2004 to 2020, the 
Petitioner participated in the festival as a drummer as well as an event planer and artist relations 
coordinator. She explains that in these roles, he helped the festival gain media exposure and secured 
master classes and jam sessions for the festival. As with I I letter, the information 
about the festivals described in these letters, such as their attendance and importance in the world of 
music, is not supported by documentary evidence in the record. Although they indicate that the 
Petitioner's participation in them has been important to the festival organizers, they do not establish 
that it has led to national or international acclaim for him. 
The totality of the evidence, including reference letters, website information, contracts, photographs 
and others, shows that the Petitioner's work as a percussionist has been displayed at many live 
performances over his career, most notably with I I The evidence indicates 
that these performances have occurred primarily in Georgia and Russia, but also in neighboring 
countries and in the United States. However, the record does not show that these performances have 
been noted in media, received critical acclaim, resulted in commercial success, or otherwise garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim for the Petitioner. Although the number and period over 
which these performances have taken place indicate that he has had a long and active career as a 
percussionist, the act of performing is inherent to the musical profession, and the record does not 
demonstrate that either the quantity or quality of these performances place the Petitioner as one of the 
very few at the top of this field. 
4 
Finally, as noted in the Director's decision, the Petitioner has submitted evidence of having served as ~ of other drummers for a single event, the 2011~ _______ ____. which took place in 
L__Jin 2011. The record indicates that this was a student drumming competition, with the focus on 
using items found in a classroom instead of traditional instruments, and culminated in an international 
tournament in Brazil. As with the evidence relating to his media attention, the Petitioner has not shown 
that a single instance of evaluating the performance of non-professionals reflects sustained acclaim at 
the national or international level or elevates his standing as one of few top percussionists in his field. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a ''career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No.101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, l 990);see also section 203(b)(l )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. Coming to Work and Substantial Prospective Benefit 
In addition to concluding that the Petitioner had not established his sustained national or international 
acclaim as a jazz percussionist and instructor, the Director also determined that he had not established 
that he is coming to the United States to continue working in his field, or that his presence would 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. As the Petitioner has not established his 
sustained national or international acclaim or standing as one of the few at the top of his field, and thus 
is not eligible for the requested classification, we reserve these issues. 1 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17643810 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cinematographer/director of photography, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, it did 
not demonstrate, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits dete1mination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 2013);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a director of photography/cinematographer with an extensive list of film and 
television credits in the United Kingdom and the United States. The record reflects that he intends to 
continue work in his area of expertise and was under contract and/or in negotiations to work on several 
upcoming feature film and television projects in the United States at the time of filing. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence related to eight of these ten criteria, 
and the Director determined that he satisfied three of them, relating to his receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards, published material about him and his work, and the display of 
his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (vii). 
Afterreviewing the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner satisfied at least 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria and will therefore turn to the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we 
will analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if 
his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
In a final merits determination, we must evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance 
of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have 
been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, making him one of the small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3): see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Upon review, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for this classification. 
2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has consistently been recognized in the entertainment indus1Iy 
for his work as a director of hoto a h for film and television productions since 2T8 Tu thar year, 
he received the L--r-----i------~-_J.L.J,.........,u..>.L~amatic category) at the.__ __ ~ Film 
Festival for the fil ~-~which was his.__ ____ ~ credit as a director of photography. This 
achievement was covered by Variety magazine, which named the Petitioner to its ~ I I Jist in 2008 The evidence further establishes tha~ I which also 
earned the Petitioner al nomination at the 2009 Filml I Awards, 
received widespread critical acclaim with additional screenings, nominations, and awards at other 
major international film festivals worldwide. 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he has been able to sustain his acclaim in the industry through 
additional achievements in cinematography that have been recognized through awards and award 
nominations. Further, the record reflects that many of the independent film projects on which he has 
worked have been official selections at the world's major film festivals, includincl II I 
Film Festival, I I Film Festival,! I Film Festival, and thel I 
Film Festival, thus garnering additional international recognition for his work. 
For example, the Petitioner has received two additionall ~ nominations from the 
Filml IAwardsforthefilmO(in2013)an~ l(in2015). 
He provided evidence that thel IA wards are considered significant in the industry 
and receive media coverage in major trade publications includin Holl wood Re orter Variety, and 
Deadline. ThePetitioner'sworkasdirectorof hoto a h fo alsoearned 
him a nomination for al ~Award at th'lr-----,.. _____________ __JAwards, 
and the film received multi le awards at the m Festival. In 2012, the Petitioner was a 
r-1ll.!.LL.Lu..i..i.~..i..u.....J.LL--,_ ___ __Jaward at I Film Festival of the I I 
.__ _____ __. for his work as director of photo for This film also 
received nominations at th n Film Awards. The Petitioner's 
additional film credits include'----~-------.-------~ andl I which both 
received [A.ward nominations for.__ ___ _.Film, in 2014 and 2016, respectively. 
The Petitioner's television credits inch::::.:1d:!..:e:::...!:::::====;---;:::::==:::'...1.'.(f~o~r which he serve..,........ .......... .........,., 
photography fo , I ~ the British serie 
British miniseries L_---1--------7 He received aL_---r--7- ___ _J ._ _ _. I jAwar=r~d~1=·n~th=e~----,r---o-----.--~==-=-........,;;.-"'-=-=. in 2014 and was 
nominated for a.__ ______ _. ward fo .__ _____ __. for.__ __________ ~ 
in 201 1. The Petitioner has also served as director of photography for music videos for several notable 
British artists and received a 201 ol I Award for Best Cinematography in a Video. 
Further, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner and his work in the film and television projects 
mentioned above have been featured i.n professional a.nd major trade publications iucfodiu g amqng 
others, Variety, Filmmaker Magazine, The Film Stage, which featured! . Jin 
its "Best Cinematography of 2016" list, and British Cinema to rap her which has publishe~ 
pieces on the Petitioner and his work on 2012 2016), andl___J 
~---~1(2020). He was also featured in a list ublished b The 
Pla list in 2016, which raises his bod of work and states that he· 
The Petitioner 
3 
and his cinematography work inl I, I I and I I have also been ~ted in case studies featured on the websites of prominent camera manufacturersLJand 
L___J Considered in the aggregate, the record reflects that the Petitioner has been consistently 
covered in industry media since 2008, thus adding to his sustained acclaim and recognition in his field. 
The record further demonstrates that the Petitioner has been reco ized for his ex ertise throu his 
nomination and selection as a f;.:::u::.!cll~m~e:!.!m:!.!b::..:e:::!r~o:'..,!f;...;t~h~e1....- __ ---r-------------~..., 
which he has also served on the~ ______ __,, and the~-------------~ I ~-A letter frorr0states that membership is "by invitation only" and "is awarded only to 
directors of photography who have proved themselves to be among the very best in the field." The 
supporting evidence describing the~membership requirements and standards for full membership 
supports this statement and indicates that those selected must have at least five years of substantial 
film and television credits and be judged as having outstanding artistic achievements in 
cinematography. The number of fully accreditedc=Jmembers is small, at just over 100, and reflects 
that those admitted are at the top of the field amon~ I cinematographers. While the membership 
requirements fo~ I appear to be somewhat less stringent, the Petitioner's full voting 
membership in that association indicates that he is regarded as an artist who has made a "significant 
contribution" to his industry. The record reflects that the Petitioner has received further recognition 
......... ~~~~~~~~......_r a~ _________ __.by serving as an invited panelist at the 
ilm Festival and b an invitation to judge the cinematography 
category for the~----------------' Awards in 2020. 
The record also contains letters from the Petitioner's U.S. and U.K talent representatives who discuss 
his prominent upcoming projects (including a~-------------~----__._), 
high remuneration relative to his peers, and demonstrated record of working with renowned directors 
on critically acclaimed and award-winning projects. When considered in the aggregate with the 
evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated that his achievements are reflective of a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990). We conclude that the record supports a finding that the Petitioner is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field of endeavor and that he has sustained national or international acclaim. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2023 In Re: 27693225 
Appeal ofNebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician , seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability in the sciences. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria required for eligibility . The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry ofa new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner, a gastroenterologist specializing in pancreatology, seeks to continue this work in the 
United States. Since he does not claim to have a one-time achievement, he must submit evidence 
meeting at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner only submitted evidence establishing eligibility for two criteria: 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), commanding a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence for the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published material about the petitioner in professional or major trade 
publications, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, the Director denied 
the petition. 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to grant the petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and allow an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786, 777-78 (BIA 1994). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the denial notice in this case does not address his evidence and appears to have 
confused his record with that of another petitioner. Upon review, for the reasons discussed below, we 
find that the Director's decision did not adequately address all of the claimed evidentiary criteria or 
analyze the evidence provided, and so did not folly explain the reasons the petition was denied. 
First, the denial's analysis of the original contributions criterion1 misstates the Petitioner's medical 
specialty and states a list of the Petitioner's exhibits that does not correspond to the documents that 
were actually provided. While the Director does analyze the Petitioner's evidence at other points, this 
portion of the decision appears to reflect the contents of a different record of proceeding. 
Second, the denial overlooks some evidence that the Petitioner did provide. For example, the decision 
letter states that the Petitioner did not provide "documentation comparing the citation records of the 
petitioner and similarly situated researchers in the field ..." In fact, the Petitioner provided a study 
of publication statistics in the field of acute pancreatitis research from 1999 to 2018. This article 
1 The section of the denial addressing the published material criterion did not contain deficiencies necessitating a remand. 
While it did not analyze the provided article regarding the Petitioner's receipt ofan award for his volunteer medical service, 
the article was not accompanied by information about its author or where it was published, as required by regulation, and 
so cannot establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
indicates, among other things, the mean impact factor and number of citations per article, thus 
providing a basis of comparison for evaluating the Petitioner's publication history. 
Finally, while the Director states that the Petitioner failed to provide "extensive documentation" in 
support of the original contributions criterion, this requirement comes from the statutory definition of 
extraordinary ability at section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act, and a petitioner's fulfillment ofthis definition 
is only assessed after it has been determined that they meet the initial evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3). Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. This standard should not be applied to 
individual criteria. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(2), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
Because the Director's decision did not adequately address the evidence of record, we will remand 
this matter. On remand, the Director should determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain 
language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and issue a new decision. 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the requisite three evidentiary criteria, they 
were not required to conduct a final merits determination ofwhether the Petitioner has established that 
he possesses sufficient acclaim and standing in his field to warrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the 
new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim 
and whether the record demonstrates that his achievements have been recognized in the field of 
expertise through extensive documentation, indicating that he is one ofthat small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
The Director may request any evidence considered relevant to the new decision. We express no 
opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2024 In Re: 32502387 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a data scientist, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
IO initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Additionally, if the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) "do not readily apply to the beneficiary's 
occupation, the petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director further determined that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 10 listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, although the Director concluded the record satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii), the Director found that the record does not satisfy the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), or (ix), noting that the record does not address the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (vii), and (x). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record satisfies the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), and (ix), in addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the record satisfies the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (vii), or (x), thereby waiving these criteria. See, e.g., Matter of 
M-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 237 (2008) 
(upholding the party presentation rule)). Additionally, the Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the 
standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to the occupation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
A. Initial Evidentiary Requirements 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen's] membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner is a "fellow member" of the 
British Computer Society (BCS) and that BCS requires, in relevant part, that fellow members "have 
made outstanding contributions in their field." However, the Director observed that the record is 
"vague as to what they consider as a requirement of outstanding contributions, nor does the 
2 
information establish that the associations use recognized national or international experts to 
determine which individuals qualify for membership." 
In turn, the Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner is a "senior member" of 
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and that IEEE requires, in relevant part, 
that senior members have "shown significant performance over a period of at least five ... years 
[through] substantial responsibility or achievement in one or more of IEEE-designated fields." 
However, the Director observed that IEEE's senior member criteria "does not meet the plain language 
of outstanding achievement, nor does the information establish that the association uses recognized 
national or international experts to determine which individuals qualify for membership." Therefore, 
the Director concluded that the record does not establish that the Petitioner's fellow membership in 
BCS or his senior membership in IEEE satisfy the plain language requirements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "not every professional association uses the exact phrase 
'outstanding achievements' to denote this requirement," and he provides information from BCS and 
IEEE that he characterizes as synonymous with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The 
Petitioner further asserts that BCS and IEEE memberships are judged by national and international 
experts, and he provides summaries of the association's membership panel requirements. 
We need not determine whether the BCS and IEEE membership language is sufficiently synonymous 
with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) because, as the Director concluded, the record does not 
establish that either BCS or IEEE memberships are judged by recognized national or international 
experts. In essence, the Petitioner summarizes that the process of becoming members of the 
associations' membership panels requires the associations' prior, internal determinations that the 
individuals in question are experts in their fields, whether "selected from a highly competitive pool" 
or "personally invited" by others who had been personally invited, before them, etc. The record 
establishes that the associations' membership panels are exclusive; however, exclusivity is 
distinguishable from recognition of expertise. The record does not contain probative, objective 
evidence that those who judge memberships to either BCS or IEEE have recognition of expertise in 
any particular discipline or field, either nationally or internationally. See generally, Matter of Ho, 
19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988) (requiring objective evidence to establish whether an assertion 
is true). Because the record does not establish that either BCS or IEEE memberships are judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields, as determined by probative, 
objective evidence, it does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains printouts of three articles attributed to the 
Petitioner, posted online by differing web portals, along with Similarweb data regarding the web 
portals. However, the Director determined that the record does not establish how the articles are 
"scholarly in nature, which require such aspects as research, vetting, reviews of experts, work cited 
and footnotes." Instead, the Director characterized the articles as "opinion pieces published on 
websites in the [P]etitioner's field for the general public to read (not learned persons in the field)." 
3 
Additionally, the Director determined that none ofthe web portals are either professional publications, 
major trade publications, or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the web portals that posted his articles require editorial review 
before publication. The Petitioner also objects that the Director improperly imposed the criteria for 
scholarly articles "in the academic arena" to the Petitioner's articles outside "the academic arena." 
The Petitioner also asserts that the record establishes the web portals qualify as major trade 
publications or other major media. The Petitioner further objects on appeal that the Director 
"impermissibly conflated the Kazarian two-step analysis." 
The Petitioner correctly asserts that the non-academic articles authored by the Petitioner in the record 
do not implicate the criteria for academic articles described in the USCIS Policy Manual, including 
"footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography." See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www. 
uscis.gov/policy-manual. Instead, the criterion is that the articles in question "should be written for 
learned persons in that field," including "all persons having profound knowledge of a field." See id. 
The record establishes that the Petitioner authored more than one non-academic, scholarly article and 
that more than one of the media that published the Petitioner's non-academic, scholarly article 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. More specifically, the content of more than 
article is written for learned persons in the field, rather than laypersons in other fields, and information 
regarding the media indicate that more than one ofthose publishers are highly regarded among learned 
persons in the field. Therefore, the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
Evidence that the [noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains paystubs dated between August 2021 and March 
2023, which indicate the Petitioner's biweekly and annualized salary during that period. The Director 
further acknowledged that "[the Petitioner's] salary is at the higher end of the spectrum," compared to 
information in the record regarding "the national average salary ofdata analysts" in general. However, 
the Director noted that the Petitioner neither has worked during the relevant period, nor proposes to 
work if the petition were to be approved, as a general data analyst or data scientist. Instead, the record 
establishes that the Petitioner has worked during the relevant period as "Associate Vice President, 
Head of Analytics and Data Science for ... a consumer technology company with a distinguished 
reputation." Therefore, the Director explained that the relevant salary is not that of data analysts in 
general but that of "top-level Data Analytics Leaders in the field, since this is where [ the Petitioner] 
claim[s] to stand." The Director ultimately concluded that the record does not establish the Petitioner 
has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in the field with his level of experience and responsibility and, thus, does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that an individual's salary need not be compared solely with the top 
earners in a particular field for the purposes of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), and he 
summarizes cases regarding professional athletes. He reasserts that his salary satisfies the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) because it ranks in the "top 7.09%, i.e., the top few percentage ... of[d]ata 
[s]cientists in the U.S." 
4 
We withdraw the Director's statements to the extent that they purport the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) requires evidence that a noncitizen has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field, "over a sustained period 
of time." Unlike the Kazarian analysis, which contemplates sustained national or international 
acclaim, the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) does not impose any particular temporal period for 
commanding a salary or other significantly high remuneration for services. 
Nevertheless, the record does not establish how the Petitioner's salary compares to others with his 
level of experience and responsibility. As noted above, the Petitioner's salary during the relevant 
period has been for performing the duties ofan "Associate Vice President, Head of Analytics and Data 
Science." Therefore, the relevant question is not whether the Petitioner has commanded a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to general, inexperienced data 
scientists with relatively low responsibilities. Instead, the relevant question is whether the Petitioner 
has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to other 
information technology companies' executive leadership whose responsibilities include applied 
science supervision in addition to administrative functions. The record does not provide sufficient, 
probative evidence of salaries of those with comparable experience and responsibilities. Therefore, 
the record does not establish the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field material to his salary or other remuneration, 
as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Kazarian Analysis 
As addressed above, the record satisfies at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
specifically the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi), and (viii). We have reviewed the record in 
its entirety; however, the totality of the material provided does not show sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrate that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
Black's Law Dictionary defines "sustain" as "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of 
time" or "to persist in making (an effort) over a long period oftime." Sustain, Black's Law Dictionary 
(11th ed. 2019). The record is primarily limited to a short period of time before the Petitioner filed 
the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers in 2023. For example, although the record 
establishes that the Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied 
field of specification for which classification is sought, the record establishes that the Petitioner did so 
exclusively in 2023, shortly before he filed the Form I-140. Further, the evidence does not set him 
apart from others in his field, for example, by establishing that he has a consistent history ofjudging 
recognized, acclaimed individuals in his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Similarly, although the record establishes that the Petitioner has authored more than one non-academic 
scholarly article in the field and more than one of the media that published those articles qualify as a 
professional or major trade publication, all of the articles were published in 2023, shortly before the 
Petitioner filed the Form I-140. Moreover, the record does not establish that any of the Petitioner's 
articles have received particular prestige or acclaim, beyond merely being of the type of articles 
contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
5 
Likewise, although the record establishes that the Petitioner has performed a leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, a letter from the Petitioner's 
former supervisor establishes that "[the Petitioner] was promoted to his leadership position in 2021." 
The record does not establish the specific date within 2021 when the Petitioner was promoted; 
however, given that he "was invited to work at Amazon in 2021" prior to his promotion to the 
leadership position in question, the promotion appears to coincide with the paystubs in the record dated 
August 2021. Although the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) does not require a minimum period 
of time or a minimum number of organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, 
the record does not establish that the Petitioner worked as "Associate Vice President, Head of 
Analytics and Data Science," for the particular employer beyond the period between August 2021 and 
March 2023-the period established by the paystubs, discussed above. 
Participating as a judge of the work of others within the same calendar year in which the Petitioner 
filed the Form I-140, writing articles published within the same calendar year in which the Petitioner 
filed the Form I-140, and working in a leading or critical role for the particular employer between 
August 2021 and March 2023 do not demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim and that 
the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). The 
information in the record primarily limited to a short period of time before the petition filing date does 
not establish how the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
beyond merely being one of many judges of the work of others, one of many authors of scholarly 
articles, and one ofmany individuals with a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment 
that has a distinguished reputation. See id. 
In tum, even if the non-qualifying evidence established the requisite national or international acclaim, 
which it does not for the reasons discussed above, it would not demonstrate sustained acclaim, which 
is the focus of the Kazarian analysis. The Petitioner's memberships in BCS and IEEE are dated June 
and February 2023, respectively, which would not demonstrate sustainment at the time of filing later 
in 2023, if those memberships were to establish the requisite level of acclaim. See id. In turn, the 
evidence in the record regarding the Petitioner's salary is dated between August 2021 and March 2023. 
Such limited information regarding salary or remuneration during one full calendar year, and portions 
of two other calendar years, would not demonstrate sustainment, if it were to establish the requisite 
level of acclaim. See id. Similar to the discussion above, even if the record established that the 
Petitioner is a member of a qualifying association, it would not establish how the Petitioner is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, beyond merely being one of many 
members of qualifying associations. See id. 
Because the totality ofthe material provided does not show sustained national or international acclaim 
and demonstrate that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, the Petitioner is not eligible for the requested classification. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20 (citing section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3)). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The evidence 
meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, the 
totality of the record does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
6 
recognition required for the classification sought. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. The record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2024 In Re: 32881154 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a copywriter, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification but did not establish, as required, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision 
consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievemen ts in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an advertising copywriter with more than 16 years of experience developing "brand 
voice in print, digital and social channels." He has worked on nationally and internationally 
recognized advertising campaigns , and has worked with leading brands, including Gillette, Uber, 
Mastercard , and Wyeth Laboratories. The Petitioner 's work has earned several awards from 2009 to 
2022. He has served as a judge for various regional and international advertising awards, including 
the Anthem, Wehby, Lovie, and Luxury Advertising awards. The Petitioner has also published articles 
about the field of advertising copywriting since 2022. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he meets the initial evidence requirements by satisfying 
at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . The Petitioner claimed that he could 
meet seven of these criteria, and the Director agreed with six of these. Specifically , the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the following criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3): 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Memberships in associations that require outstanding achievements ; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original artistic contribution s of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional or trade publications ; and 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a 
distinguished reputation. 
2 
Although the Director did not provide an analysis ofthe evidence submitted in support ofthis criterion, 
she concluded that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), display 
of work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
Because the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze 
all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if they are 
among the small percent at the top of their field and have sustained national or international acclaim 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field ofendeavor. As noted above, 
in a final merits determination, the Director looks at whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As noted above, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that he has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the very top of his field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner submits a brief and references evidence already in the record, including evidence of his 
participation as a judge of the work of others in advertising in 2022, evidence of articles he wrote in 
2022, and evidence of the Petitioner's award for copywriting in 2021. The Petitioner also submits 
evidence of a 2024 interview he gave that was published on the website AdForum, where he discusses 
his selection as a member of the jury for the PHNX Awards, a competition to recognize achievements 
in the advertising community. While the Petitioner notes that this evidence occurred after the date of 
filing, he states that the interview is submitted as evidence that he "continues to be active in his field 
to this day." 
Here, we remand the matter as the Director's decision did not apprise the Petitioner of the deficiencies in 
the evidence ofrecord. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if he is among the small percent at the top of his field 
and has sustained national or international acclaim to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. 2 
Here, in the final merits analysis the Director lists the evidence that the Petitioner submitted to 
demonstrate the claimed evidentiary criteria. However, without explanation the Director concludes that 
the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner "is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor." The Director includes no discussion in the final merits analysis of the Petitioner's 
1 See also 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis .gov/policymanual. 
2 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) , (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADI I-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy Memo), https://www.uscis.gov / legal-resources /policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification) . 
3 
evidence of his original artistic contributions of major significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Further, the Director makes contradictory conclusions on whether the Petitioner met the evidentiary 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). First, the Director states, without analysis, that the Petitioner 
"provided documentation, but failed to establish eligibility" based on evidence ofthe display of his work 
in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Then, in the final merits analysis, the Director states, 
"With respect to [the Petitioner's] display of his work ... [w]hile the evidence may show [he] meets the 
first part, he has not offered sufficient documentation to establish that being a participant for [ advertising 
copywriting] awards are consistent with being among the small percentage at the top ofthe field or having 
a 'career of acclaimed work.'" 
The Director's decision is unclear regarding the overall basis of denial related to the final merits 
determination and does not offer an accurate analysis ofthe evidence to allow the Petitioner a meaningful 
opportunity to prepare an appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow 
the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Notwithstanding the deficiencies in the Director's decision and our withdrawal thereof, the record 
does not appear to demonstrate that the Petitioner, by a preponderance of the evidence, has sustained 
national or international acclaim, is one ofthe small percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
However, because the Director's decision does not provide sufficient analysis to allow the Petitioner 
to develop a meaningful appeal, we will remand the matter for entry of a new decision, and further 
consideration of whether the Petitioner can establish that he has extraordinary ability in the field of 
copywriting. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 20, 2024 In Re: 32020911 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a screenwriter, director, and creative producer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that, although the 
Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, he did not demonstrate his 
sustained national or international acclaim and establish that he is among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
The Petitioner is a screenwriter, director, and producer in the fields of television, film, and music. He 
intends to continue his work in the entertainment industry in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and 
(iv), relating, respectively, to his receipt of lesser-known national awards, published material about 
him and his work, and judging the work of others in his field. The record supports that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also satisfies additional criteria related to original artistic 
contributions of major significance in his field, display of his work at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases, and performance in leading and critical roles of organizations that have a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), (vii), and (viii). 1 As the Petitioner has established that he 
meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, we need not reach a finding on these additional criteria 
here. We will address the evidence regarding these criteria in the final merits analysis below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine the individual's successes are sufficient to demonstrate extraordinary ability in the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
1 On appeal the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that he had not satisfied the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) or (x). 
2 
To demonstrate his receipt of a nationally recognized award for excellence in his field of endeavor, 
the Petitioner submitted original and translated copies of his 2008 award, which he personally 
received for screenwriting on a popular parody television show in Russia. The record indicates that 
the is the highest award for achievement in the television arts industry in Russia, equivalent to 
an Emmy award the United States. While the award demonstrates a single significant achievement 
within the television industry, it does not demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim at 
the very top of a field. Indeed, letters he submitted from experts in the field to attest to his experience 
are authored by individuals with supporting evidence listing numerous accolades for their 
accomplishments-including, for most of the authors, several awards, among others. In order 
to demonstrate the importance of awards, the Petitioner submitted articles about other 
individuals in the entertainment industry who had each received multiple I I and other national 
and international awards. The achievements of these individuals indicate that they have attained 
higher levels of acclaim than the Petitioner, which calls into question his assertion that he is at the top 
of his field as a "leading figure in the field of television and entertainment." 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to various awards won by the parody show and the show's award 
nominations for categories such as 'TV Program Screenwriter," "Producer of a TV Program," and 
"Director of a TV Program." He also highlights that another well-known show on which he worked 
won an award for best sitcom. First, we note that nominations cannot be considered awards according 
to the plain language of the criterion. 2 Second, these awards were not granted to the Petitioner for his 
specific contributions, 3 but to other show creators or to the show itself. Involvement in an award­
winning project does not necessarily reflect the awarding entity's intention to recognize the work of an 
individual participant. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence or statements from the awarding entities 
to confirm that the Petitioner's contributions to the projects weighed significantly on the selection of the 
award recipients, such that the awards constituted recognition of the Petitioner's excellence in his field. 
Although the record demonstrates that the Petitioner received a notable nationally recognized award 
in 2008- a -the receipt of a single award for contributions to one show in a single year thirteen 
years prior to the filing of his petition is not indicative of an individual who is at the top of his field 
and who has maintained sustained acclaim within that field. 
To demonstrate that material has been published about the Petitioner and his work in major media, the 
Petitioner submitted articles and documentation of interviews from 2015, 2016, and 2019 discussing 
his work on music videos and on a documentary he made of his home city in Russia,I I Although 
the Petitioner has been recognized and his work has been discussed in several media publications, that 
recognition is limited to his creation of a single documentary film aboutl land his production of 
two music videos for a musical group in Russia. The record does not include evidence explaining the 
impact of his work within the entertainment industry or elsewhere to signal a level of acclaim 
commensurate with recognition as an individual at the top of his field who has sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
As to the Petitioner's experience judging the work of others in his field, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence of his service as a jury member for two film festivals that he organized in I Ian event 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that the 
wording of the regulation requires the prizes or awards to be received by the individual, not by his or her employer). 
3 
held in 2013 and an international film festival 2019. The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his 
participation as a jury member from 2013 to 2019 on a long-running and well-known comedy 
competition show that originated in the Soviet Union and developed into an international competition. 
The president of the show's _______ provided the following in a letter of support 
( quoted as written): 
For over 6 years, [the Petitioner] served as a Jury Member of the I I Ievaluating stage performances of the competing teams. It was a privilege for 
us to have among our Jury Members such an acclaimed, award-winning Screenwriter, 
Director, and Producer as [the Petitioner] is. We invited [the Petitioner] to serve as a 
JuryJury Member because he is one of the most talented and acclaimed Arts and 
Television industry experts in Russia. Only professionals of such a high caliber serve 
as Jury Members. 
While the league president's statement is laudatory ofthe Petitioner, it is not corroborated by evidence 
such as jury selection criteria or other documentation to demonstrate requirements or qualifications 
necessary for participation as a jury member. Although the Petitioner's work in the entertainment 
industry may have been known amongst others in the industry and contributed to his selection as a 
judge of the competition, it is not clear how his participation on the show or in the two film festivals 
serve to establish that he is an individual of sustained acclaim at the top of his field. 
As evidence of the Petitioner's original contributions of major significance in his field, the Petitioner 
submitted letters of support from experts in the film and television industry. One such letter states that 
the Petitioner is "known in the industry for his original ideas and high caliber ability" and "has 
developed original ideas and works that have resulted in successful films, videos, and events." The 
author further states, "There is no doubt in my mind that [the Petitioner] has made a major impact on 
the television and entertainment industry, particularly in Russia." This letter, however, like others 
submitted, discusses the Petitioner's critical roles in the success of several entertainment projects; the 
letters do not specify how the Petitioner's contributions were original or of major significance to the 
field. One letter highlights the Petitioner's documentary of his home city of I Istating the 
following: 
[The Petitioner's] original contributions have helped develop the film industry in 
and resulted in unique films and videos that have attracted regional, national 
and international attention, as noted by government officials such as the Mayor of the 
city of Iand a Member ofthe State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian 
Federation. 
To corroborate this statement, the Petitioner submitted an honorary letter of appreciation for cultural 
contributions to the city ofI Iin 2017, and the evidence demonstrates that the documentary was 
well-received by the local population and was covered in stories and interviews with the Petitioner on 
several media websites. While this evidence shows that the Petitioner is a recognized figure in the 
entertainment industry by the city and that his work may have had a positive influence on the city, the 
evidence does not support claims ofany original contributions to the film or television industries. The 
Petitioner may consider his documentary to be an original artistic creation, but he has not demonstrated 
4 
that his documentary was an original contribution of major significance in the field of documentary 
filmmaking or in any other realm of the field of visual entertainment. 
Concerning the Petitioner's contention that the Director erred in determining that his work had not 
been displayed in accordance with the regulation,4 we acknowledge that the Petitioner's documentary 
and other projects in which he was involved demonstrate that the work or the product of his work as a 
director, writer, or producer has been displayed at artistic exhibitions and showcases. However, the 
record does not include evidence offering a comparison or other indicator of how the display of the 
Petitioner's work demonstrates that he has attained acclaim and is considered to be at the top of his 
field. It is not clear how the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner is at the top of his field when 
the display ofhis work through television was work he was involved with as part ofan extensive team, 
rather than as a major or leading creator or contributor. 
As evidence that the Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submitted several letters of support. 
These letters of support laude the Petitioner's work on shows for previous employers and emphasize 
the critical role of his work on several television shows, two of which were adapted from popular 
shows in the United States and one of which won an award for best sitcom. These letters detail the 
Petitioner's critical role in the success of that sitcom, his critical role in producing a well-known 
parody show, and his leading role in directing music videos for a well-known musical group and for a 
commercial for a hockey organization. Additional letters describe his leading role in the production 
of awards shows for an internationally recognized haircare brand and for two film festivals. However, 
the record does not establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the Petitioner has served in 
leading or critical roles consistently and at a level that would gamer recognition within the film or 
television industry as an individual of acclaim at the top of his field. 
Although the Petitioner has served in critical roles for establishments that have distinguished 
reputations, the number of those establishments is few relative to peers in the entertainment industry 
for whom he has submitted documentation detailing their career histories, experience, and accolades. 
As explained previously, the Petitioner's experience and achievements do not appear to equate to or 
surpass that ofthe support letter authors or the previous award winners, all ofwhom the evidence 
ofrecord indicates are highly regarded as acclaimed in their field. For example, the record shows that 
the author of one letter of support, a producer in Russia, became the first to make a deal with I I 
who bought five of his company's television series. As another example, a director/producer/writer 
in the United States who wrote the Petitioner a letter of support has directed numerous well-known 
series on major U.S. networks, including NBC, CBS, ABC, and The CW. And as an additional 
example, of the individuals for whom the Petitioner submitted evidence to establish the significance 
of the awards, one of these individuals won five I Itwo won sevenI Ione won eight 
and another won fourteen. The notability and experience of all of these individuals in the 
entertainment industry suggests a level of professional advancement in their field well beyond that of 
the Petitioner. The Petitioner has not established by a preponderance of the evidence that he has 
received sustained national or international acclaim in the entertainment industry and recognition as 
an individual at the top of his field. 
4 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner may have contributed to the 
successful production of several television programs and events, that he served on the jury of a long­
running competition show, and that he created a documentary about a city that drew a positive response 
from the city. However, the record does not show that this success has translated into individual 
recognition for the Petitioner at a level that rises to sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9579451 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 21, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an illustrator, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth an initial evidentiary threshold of recognition through either a one-
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has served as an illustrator and art director on several advertising campaigns, working for 
different advertising agencies and then establishing his "own illustration and animation company," while 
also teaching graphic design at the university level in Colombia. He also illustrated a children's book and 
wrote his own book on how to sculpt I I After filing the petition and securing 
employment authorization, the Petitioner has begun working as a senior art director for the advertising 
agenc~ I The appeal includes evidence of the Petitioner's activities after the petition's filing 
date. These materials show that the Petitioner has continued to be successful in his field, but cannot 
establish that he was eligible for the benefit sought at the time of filing as required by 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(1). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven of those criteria: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
I (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
I (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (iv) and (vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria numbered (i), (v), and (viii). The 
Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the other previously claimed criteria, 
and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned.1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 {BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the 
Petitioner has satisfied two criteria, numbered (iv) and (vii). We discuss the remaining three criteria 
below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner's employer, an advertising agency, won a Sol de Plata (Silver Sun) prize at the I I 
.___ ____ _, Festival in 2012, in recognition of an advertisement for al I A photograph 
of the Silver Sun trophy shows an engraved plaque, but the engraving is not legible, so the photograph 
does not show that the Petitioner personally received the trophy. Another photograph shows the Petitioner 
holding the trophy, with his hands completely obscuring the engraved plaque. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted documentation of his receipt of the prize. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he did submit such documentation, in the form of a letter from an 
official of the advertising agency that won the prize. That official asserts that the Petitioner, "together 
with the creative team at the company, was awarded a Silver Sun." The agency's letter, however, is not 
documentation of the Beneficiary's receipt of the prize. Rather, it is an assertion from an individual who 
was not involved in the selection of winners. 
The Petitioner has established his involvement in an award-winning project, but not the extent to which 
the award recognized his contributions in particular. The Petitioner submits copies of newspaper articles 
about the Festival and the awards, but these materials do not show the Petitioner's receipt of the prize. A 
catalog of advertising art names the Petitioner as one of three art directors who worked on the project, 
although the Petitioner was not the artist who created the image used in the advertisement. 
The Petitioner also asserts that his inclusion in competitive, juried exhibitions also constitute prizes. The 
Petitioner submits information about exhibitions by Latin American I I and I I The Petitioner has not shown that the annual competition or the selection of winners 
receives significant national or international notice. The publicity that the Petitioner has documented 
does not identify individual winning works, and the Petitioner has not established the profile of the 
exhibitions (which appear to take place at venues such as a library and a university). The reputation of 
the awarding entity is not necessarily proportional to the recognition accorded to a particular prize or 
award from that entity. Therefore, while inclusion in a juried exhibition may constitute a prize under 
some circumstances, the Petitioner has not established that the selection of his work for these particular 
events amounts to his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
3 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted in APWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner asserts that his instructional book on I I has made "an impact in the 
education field ... [and] to many more professional areas such as health and psychology, and it has had 
social impact through religious organizations or foundations with social approaches." 
The record shows that the Colombian Ministry of Education included the book in thel I I I Letters in the record indicate that psychologists use the book for team exercises; 
physical therapists use it for rehabilitation; and a church states that the Petitioner "organizes! I D workshops" based on his work. 
The contributions described are more educational than artistic, and since the book's publication in 2006, 
the Petitioner's documented work has been in the field of advertising rather than in educational materials 
for children. Also, the Petitioner does not provide a basis for comparison to show the impact of his work 
in relation to that of others. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that his 2006 book constitutes an artistic 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he performed in leading or critical roles for three advertising agencies in 
Colombia. The record establishes that these organizations have distinguished reputations, but not that the 
Petitioner performed in leading or critical roles for those organizations. 
The Petitioner establishes his involvement in projects for important clients, and officials of the companies 
attest to his talent, but his role within a given project is not necessarily critical to the organization as a 
whole. We note that when, in the appellate brief, the Petitioner discusses projects that have contributed 
to the reputations of the agencies, the Petitioner "does not contend that he worked on the particular 
campaigns [thus] referenced." 
The Petitioner also contends that he performed in a leading role as a senior art director at one of the 
agencies. He states: "A Senior Art Director is clearly a leading role as evidenced by the title itself. AAO 
case-law states that a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational 
hierarchy; clearly a senior director would be considered a leading role in a hierarchy." To support this 
contention, the Petitioner cites an unpublished appellate decision, which does not constitute case law or 
other binding authority. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) officers are, however, bound by a USCIS policy 
memorandum which states that "[a] title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
4 
role is (or was), in fact, leading."2 The Petitioner has not adequately established the nature of his duties 
as a senior art director, or submitted evidence such as an organizational chart to show that he had a leading 
role in the context of the company, rather than the more limited context of specific projects or accounts. 
The record also does not show how many senior art directors worked at the company at the time, which 
may have shed light on the nature and scope of each senior art director's responsibilities. 
For the reasons explained above, the Petitioner has not established that his work for advertising 
agencies in Colombia amounted to leading or critical roles. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has earned some degree of recognition over the course of a 
successful career. Nevertheless, success is not the same as sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. The evidence of 
record lacks sufficient context to establish that the Petitioner's achievements, as of the time of filing, 
place him in the small percentage at the very top of his field as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 21, 2024 In Re: 33167668 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor of chemistry, seeks to classify himself as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
IO initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
As noted above, the Director concluded the record does not establish the Petitioner received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director further determined that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the IO criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically , although the Director concluded the record satisfies the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), the Director found that the record does not satisfy the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), noting that the record does not address criteria other than those at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), in 
addition to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal 
that the record satisfies criteria other than those at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)-(vi) , thereby waiving 
these criteria. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. 
US., 554 U.S. 237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). Additionally, the Petitioner does 
not assert on appeal that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to the occupation . 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
We adopt and affirm the Director's analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which 
addresses the Petitioner's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. See Matter of Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 
(BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting that the practice of 
adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that 
has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) (joining eight circuit 
courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they 
give "individualized consideration" to the case). On appeal, the Petitioner generally repeats his prior 
assertions regarding the criterion. However, the Director provided a detailed analysis of evidence 
submitted for the criterion and discussed how the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate that the 
Petitioner met the criterion, reaching the correct conclusion. 
For example, the Director explained that the plain language ofthe criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
contemplates extant evidence of contributions in the field, not speculation of the potential for 
significance in the future. The Director further distinguished moderate significance from the "major 
significance" contemplated by the criterion. As another example, the Director discussed why citation 
data regarding the Petitioner's published articles-both individually and in the aggregate-does not 
indicate major significance in the field, as compared to other researchers. The Director also addressed 
the Petitioner's presentations at conferences, noting that the record does not establish how those 
presentations demonstrate major significance to the field. Likewise, the Director acknowledged letters 
submitted on behalf of the Petitioner; however, the Director noted that the assertions therein were 
speculative, unsubstantiated, or otherwise unpersuasive. The Director also observed that the record 
establishes the Petitioner developed or designed an innovation used in Iran, but the record does not 
establish that the innovation is of major significance to the field in general, beyond merely being used 
in Tran. The Director's five-page discussion adequately distinguished evidence of the Petitioner's 
contributions of moderate significance to the field from evidence of contributions of major 
significance to the field, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In summation, the Petitioner has not established he received a one-time achievement or, in the 
alternative, provided sufficient evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced 
in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976); see also Matter 
ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 21, 2024 In Re: 33079739 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jeweler, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner began making traditional Uzbek jewelry in 2010. The record reflects his involvement 
at various craft festivals since that time. He arrived in the United States as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor 
in September 2022, and he seeks to make and sell jewelry inl IN ew York. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
When he initially filed the petition, the Petitioner did not clearly state which of the criteria he claimed 
to satisfy. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed to have satisfied four of 
the criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims to have met additional criteria, which we will address further below. 
First, we will explain why we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had not satisfied 
any of the claimed criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy the requirements of this criterion through his membership in the 
Hunarmand Association in Uzbekistan. As explained below, we agree with the Director's conclusion 
that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficiently reliable evidence to meet the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner initially submitted letters from claimed officials ofHunarmand Association, on letterhead 
that reads: "Regional Administration ofl !Association/ HUN ARMAND/Folk craftsmen, 
Artisans and Painters ofthe Republic Uzbekistan [sic]." One letter, signed by the "Head of 'Hunarmand' 
Association," indicated that membership "is open only to highly skilled masters who are among the few 
on top of their fields and requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk art." The official stated that the Petitioner 
"was accepted to Hunarmand Association in 201 0" based on the recommendation of "an internationally 
2 
known art critic and the Uzbek applied arts researcher and a nationally and internationally recognized 
expert in the Jewelry of traditional Uzbek folk arts." 
One of the recommending individuals provided his own letter, stating: "in 2015, as a member of the Art 
Experts Council of Hunarmand Association of Uzbekistan ... I recommended [the Petitioner's] 
admission to Hunarmand Association based on his outstanding achievements in the field of Uzbek 
traditional Jewelry art products." We also note that the submitted letters disagree as to whether the 
Petitioner became a member of Hunarmand in 2010 or 2015. The Petitioner's translated membership 
certificate shows a date of issuance several years later, in May 2022, with no indication that the Petitioner 
was a member before that date. 
In the RFE, the Director asked for "[ t ]he section ofthe association's constitution or bylaws which discuss 
the criteria for membership" and "the qualifications required of the reviewers on the review panel of the 
association," along with "[i]nformation to establish that the individuals who review prospective members' 
applications are recognized as national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a document with the heading "Extract From Hunarmand By-Laws." 
The relevant portion of the document indicates that, "[t]o be considered for membership, artists and 
craftsmen must have a proven record of outstanding achievements in their field." The document lists the 
following examples: 
Winning prestigious awards or competitions 
Having their work exhibited in major galleries or museums 
Writing or publishing books or articles on their craft 
Teaching or mentoring other artists and craftsmen 
Making significant contributions to the preservation of Uzbek art and culture 
The document is in English, with no indication that it has been translated from Uzbek, Russian, or any 
other language. We agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not confirm the source, 
and therefore the authenticity, ofthis document. 
The Petitioner submitted a printout from the website oflntangible Cultural Heritage ofUzbekistan (ICH), 
which indicates that Hunarmand was "founded by the Decree of the President of the Republic of 
Uzbekistan No. 1741 'On Measures of State Support for further development of folk arts and crafts' from 
March 31, 1997." The ICH printout does not indicate that membership is limited to individuals with 
outstanding achievements. Rather, it describes Hunarmand as an organization that serves all artists and 
artisans. The Petitioner did not submit a copy of Decree No. 1741, which created Hunarmand, or any 
governing document directly attributed to Hunarmand. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider a previously submitted letter from 
Hunarmand' s chief executive officer, attesting to the recognition of the individual who claimed to have 
recommended the Petitioner for membership. The Director mentioned this letter in the denial notice, 
saying the Petitioner had submitted it "[i]n support of the author's claims [to be] a nationally and 
internationally recognized expert." We note that the Hunarmand letterhead on this document, which does 
not mention the Petitioner, is visibly different from the letterhead on other correspondence attributed to 
3 
I Hunarmand officials. All versions ofthe letterhead in the record refer to Hunarmand's regional office in Irather than the organization at a national level. 
The Petitioner does not address the other issues raised by the Director, discussed above. It is the 
Petitioner's responsibility to resolve inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved material 
inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of other evidence submitted in 
support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. 
We agree with the Director that discrepancies and omissions in the record lead to the conclusion that the 
Petitioner has not met his burden ofproofto establish that Hunarmand requires outstanding achievements 
ofits members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner stated that he "often represented the country at international contests and exhibitions," 
where he won "a lot ofinternational awards." In this introductory statement, the Petitioner did not identify 
any specific prizes or awards. 
A letter attributed to the director of the Uzbekistan, 
stated that the Petitioner "took part in the contest! -2015,' where he took high places in the 
category 'Best Craftsman.'" The official did not claim to have been involved in that competition and did 
not establish that he had the authority to make attestations on behalf of its organizers. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of certificates acknowledging that the Petitioner participated in various 
exhibitions, but the Petitioner did not establish that the certificates, or participation itself, are nationally 
or internationally recognized prize or awards. Most of the participation certificates appear to be from 
municipal or regional officials. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not shown that the certificates amount to prizes or 
awards, or that they are nationally or internationally recognized. In response, the Petitioner stated that he 
"was on multiple occasions the recipient of national and international prizes, awards, and certifications." 
He asserted: 
Arguably the main source of his awards and certificates is the I IFestival in I Uzbekistan, which is widely known for its celebration ofthe region's rich history 
and vibrant culture .... 
. . . Winning a prize at the I IFestival is a rather significant achievement that 
brings with it several benefits including: national & international prestige and recognition, 
significant financial rewards ... , and widespread promotion and media exposure to the 
public and potential future clients and sponsors. 
4 
... The Beneficiary was one of two prime winners -out of almost 600 participants -of 
the festival in 2021, and was awarded by the President ofHunarmand 
for his achievements. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter attributed to "the director of the 'Hunarmand Association' ofl I city," who stated that the Petitioner "became the winner and laureate at the exhibition I 
and "he received as a gift from the President." This official stated that 
the Petitioner received! lin 2022, not 2021. The Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to 
establish the national or international recognition of prizes from the I I 
The official's letter included a photograph ofl Inext to an image of an English-language 
certificate awarded to the Petitioner "for active participation in the I I 
I Art Festival" inl Iin 2022. The Petitioner also submitted a copy of a I_____ from 2022, indicating that 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the submitted materials do not establish that the Petitioner 
wonl las a prize or award. The Director also stated that a number of key assertions regarding the 
Petitioner's claimed prizes and awards lack the necessary corroboration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that I Iis a "presidential prize." The Petitioner does not 
address the evidentiary deficiencies that the Director identified. Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice 
of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N 
Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). 
We agree with the Director's conclusion and observations. We add that the Petitioner did not submit 
evidence to show national or international recognition of prizes or awards offered at the 
Festival or other exhibitions in which he has participated. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to establish his receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner initially submitted three items intended to satisfy this criterion: 
• A translated Russian-language article from 2022, from a newspaper with a title that translates to 
The People's Word, calling the Petitioner "a famous young representative" of a "family dynasty" 
that has created jewelry inl for four generations; 
• An undated brochure in Russian and English, with the title Jewelry art of which includes 
photographs of the Petitioner and which incorporates, without attribution, the entire text that 
appeared in the People's Word article; and 
5 
• An undated, translated Russian-language article with the title from 
an unidentified website, describing a jewelry exhibition with particular attention to the Petitioner 
and his work. 
None of the articles include the required author credits, and only the first article is from an identified 
publication. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the submitted materials do not meet the regulatory requirements, and 
that the Petitioner had not shown that any of the materials appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. The Director requested circulation data and other information to show 
that the materials meet the regulatory requirements. 
In response, the Petitioner provided a name for the author of the People's Word article, but that name 
does not appear to be present on the Russian-language article reproduced in the record. The Petitioner 
stated that The People's Word "is one of the most famous newspapers in Uzbekistan" with a circulation 
of "about 50,000 copies." The Petitioner did not submit evidence to corroborate these assertions. The 
Petitioner submitted a printout from Wikipedia, which called The People's Word a government-run 
"Russian-language newspaper published from Uzbekistan," but provided no other information about the 
paper, or its circulation. 
The Petitioner also referred to _________ as a "famous article," but did not say where 
it was published, who wrote it, or how the article is "famous." 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that information from user-edited sites such as Wikipedia lack 
probative value because there is no assurance about its reliability. See Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 
910-11 (8th Cir. 2008). Even then, the Wikipedia article did not corroborate any of the Petitioner's 
specific claims about The People's Word. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats prior claims, and now asserts that The People's Word has a circulation 
of 60,000 copies. The Petitioner states: "An article in 'People's Word' of Tashkent about a talented 
jeweler from lwould be a considerable honor within Uzbekistan" because "'People's Word' is a 
well-established newspaper in the capital city. Having his work featured there would put [him] in front 
ofa large audience and establish his reputation within Uzbekistan." As noted above, statements in a brief 
or notice of appeal are not evidence and have no evidentiary weight. The Petitioner has not overcome the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner has not shown that the published material meets the regulatory 
requirements. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof to show that he has been the subject ofpublished material 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner did not initially claim to have satisfied this criterion. In response to the RFE, the Petitioner 
established that he had written a book called ______________ Web printouts 
indicate that the book is available for download from Academia and Library Genesis, and they identify 
6 
the book's publisher as BookBaby. The book includes a history ofjewelry inl !photographs and 
descriptions of types of such jewelry, and information about materials and how they are shaped into 
traditional jewelry. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated that the book's publication date occurred after the issuance ofthe 
RFE, and noted that BookBaby is a "distribution network for self-published authors." The Director 
concluded that the Beneficiary's self-published book is not a scholarly article for a learned audience, but 
rather it provides more basic information for a general readership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts: "While [his] book may not be published through traditional academic 
channels, it is demonstrably accessible to the relevant scholarly community." 
We note that the printouts from the websites offering downloads of the Petitioner's book show the 
publication date as 2021. The 2023 date that the Director noted appears to be the date it became available 
on Library Genesis. 
But the larger issue is that the Petitioner has not shown that his book is a scholarly article published in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. A scholarly article should be written for 
learned persons in a particular field. "Learned" is defined as "having profound knowledge gained by 
study." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. In 
evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication or major media, relevant factors 
include the intended audience ( for professional journals) and the circulation or readership relative to other 
media in the field (for major media). Id. 
The Petitioner refers to "the relevant scholarly community," but does not explain what that community 
is. The tone and apparent reading level change from section to section. Some parts of the book include 
detailed instructions that presume the reader's familiarity with metalworking, but other parts are at a much 
more introductory level, for instance explaining the difference between brass and bronze. Some of the 
text appears to be promotional in nature, such as passages that read "our experienced craftsmen create 
unique and exquisite chains by hand" and "[i]t is the amazing speed of production that allows us to meet 
the needs of our customers." 
The Petitioner acknowledges that his book has not been published in the traditional sense. The petitioner 
has not shown or claimed that his self-published book appeared in a professional journal. The Petitioner 
has not provided download, circulation, or readership statistics to establish that his book is a major trade 
publication or other major media. A self-published book submitted without this information does not 
satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof to show his authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Initially, the Petitioner stated that he "presents his work at national and international conferences, 
exhibitions and competitions," but did not directly claim to satisfy the criterion relating to display. 
7 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not submitted evidence to "indicate that the 
beneficiary created any work that was displayed at any venue." In response, the Petitioner stated that he 
"meets the following criteria"; the four he listed did not include display. 
In the denial notice, the Director noted that the Petitioner's response to the RFE included "no further 
claims nor any additional evidence ... to address this criterion." The Director concluded that the record 
does not contain "objective documentation that the beneficiary displayed their work at any artistic 
exhibitions or showcases." 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has submitted "evidence of [his] work being displayed at various 
artistic exhibitions." The Petitioner does not describe this evidence in any detail or explain how it satisfies 
the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has submitted copies of several certificates indicating that he participated in cultural 
festivals and an "exhibition of industrial products," but the certificates do not describe the nature of the 
participation. Therefore, the certificates are not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner displayed his work. 
Also, evidence ofpublic display is not sufficient. The Petitioner must establish that the venues where his 
work was displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner's initial filing was ambiguous with regard to this criterion. When the Director gave the 
Petitioner an opportunity to clarify and supplement the record, specifically raising the issue in the RFE, 
the Petitioner's response did not include any direct claim to have satisfied the display criterion. Where, 
as here, a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an 
opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 
1988). 
We conclude that the Director did not err in determining that the Petitioner had not met his burden of 
proof with respect to display of his work at artistic displays or exhibitions. 
The Petitioner's appellate brief includes assertions about several other regulatory criteria that the 
Petitioner did not claim when he first filed the petition or in response to the RFE. The Petitioner quotes 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), pertaining to evidence that the individual has commanded a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. He also 
claims a "critical role as a judge in the I IExhibition." This language may refer to participation as 
a judge ofthe work ofothers under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) or a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations or establishments under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Raising these new claims for the first time on appeal does not identify any erroneous conclusion of law 
or statement of fact in the Director's decision as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Furthermore, the 
new materials submitted on appeal do not establish eligibility. The Petitioner submitted figures for his 
claimed earnings in Uzbekistan, and salary surveys for jewelers in the United States, but this information 
does not show that he earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to other 
8 
jewelers in Uzbekistan. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(1 ), which indicates that 
we consider salary figures relevant to the applicable work location. 
A newly submitted letter, indicating that the Petitioner served as a judge at a craft exhibition in 2019, 
relates to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Detailed discussion ofthis evidence would not change the outcome 
of the appeal because the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least two other initial criteria. 1 
It is significant that, in response to the RFE and again on appeal, the Petitioner made new claims, asserting 
that they are of particular significance, but not explaining why he did not include this important 
information when he initially filed the petition. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted information indicating that he is a respected 
jeweler inl Ibut the evidence in the record does not consistently and credibly show that he has 
earned a degree ofrecognition of his work that indicates the required sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21218536 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 22, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a transplant surgeon, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner studied medicine at the I I Institute of Medical Sciences from 2003 to 2012, and his 
training included fellowships at the University of from 2012 to 2014 and the University of I lfrom2014to 2016. The Petitioner worked as a clinical instructor atl I 
University from2016 to 2018, and as an assistant professor at University Hospitals in I 
from 2018 to 2020. Since 2020, the Petitioner has been an assistant professor at the University of I 
Medical Center I I as an H-lB nonimmigrant in a specialty occupation.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x ). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pe1iaining to judging the work of 
others and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asse1is that he also meets the 
other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied only the two 
criteria granted previously. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 We note that the Petitioner previously filed anotherimmigrant petition on his own behalf, with receipt number 
on September 7, 20 I 7. Under that petition, the Petitioner sought a different classification, with different 
eligibility requirements, as a memberoftheprofessionsholdinganadvanceddegree, with a nationalinterestwaiverofthe 
job offer requirement under section 203(b)(2)(B)(ii). That petition was approved on April 13, 2018, and the approval 
remains in effect. 
2 
The Petitioner asserts that he satisfies this criterion as a fellow of the American College of Surgeons 
(ACS), as a member of Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society þÿ (‘©‘ ) ,  and as a member of Sigma 
Xi, the Scientific Research Honor Society þÿ (£ž ) .  
A petitionermustmeetalleligibilityrequirements at the timeoffilingthe petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(bX1). 
His acceptance letters from þÿ‘©‘  and þÿ£ž  are both dated November 2021, two months after the filing date 
in September 2021. Furthermore, the record does not show that these memberships meet the regulatory 
requirements. The petitioner "must show that membership in the associations is based on the person 
being judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis. 
gov /po licymanual. 
Both organizations admit students into membership, and the submitted materials do not show that 
recognized national or international experts judge the achievements of prospective members. þÿ£ž  
membership is available to researchers who show "primary authorship of two papers," and"[ a ]n earned 
doctoral degree may be substituted for one paper." þÿ‘©‘  elects members at the local chapter level. 
Neither admission standard reflects that it would meet the criterion. 
The Petitioner joined the ACS as a fellow (synonymous, here, with "member") in 2020, before he filed 
the petition. The record includes a printout from the ACS's website, indicating that fellows are chosen 
based on "rigorous evaluation" of their "education and training professional qualifications, surgical 
competence, and ethical conduct." These factors do not rise to the level of outstanding achievements. 
The ACS' s bylaws, also in the record, describe a higher level of membership, "Honorary Fellowship," 
which is limited to "individuals who (a) possess an international reputation in the field of surgery or 
medicine, or (b) have rendered distinguished humanitarian services." The Petitioner 's membership 
documents indicate that he is a fellow, not an honorary fellow. 
The Petitioner has not established that the named associations require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts, for the level of membership that the Petitioner 
holds in those associations. Therefore, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(hX3)(v) . 
The Petitioner states that his "innovative research ... has led to important advances in [his] vital surgical 
subspecialty and has improved access to transplant surgeries for patients," and "impacted the way 
physicians approach the use of clinical and surgical advancements ... in their efforts to responsibly treat 
patients suffering from chronic and acute conditions." 
The USCIS Policy Manual provides guidelines for evaluating evidence and information relating to the 
significance of an individual's contributions: 
[P]eer-reviewed presentationsatacademicsymposiaorpeer-reviewedarticlesin scholarly 
journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others 
working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite 
3 
the person's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the 
person's contributions to the field of endeavor . 
. . . [E]xperts in the field may provide [probative analysis] in opinion letters regarding the 
significance of the person's contributions in order to assist in giving an assessment of the 
person's original contributions of major significance. That said, not all expe1i letters 
provide such analysis. Letters that specifically articulate how the person's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work add value. 
Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are 
not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 
6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner did not provide citation figures for his published work. Instead, he has submitted Altmetric 
profiles for five of his articles. These profiles include "Attention Scores" that rank the articles against 
"all research outputs," "outputs of the same age," and "outputs of the same age and source." The profiles 
do not appear to rank the response to the Petitioner's work in relation to other articles in the same field of 
research. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that these profiles show that his original 
contributions have major significance in the field. If the Petitioner contends that citations are not a reliable 
indicator of that significance, then the burden remains on him to establish significance and the major 
significance of his contributions by other means. 
Screen captures show that various physicians, organizations, and publications have tweeted links to 
articles by the Petitioner, but the Petitioner has not shown that only contributions of major significance 
are mentioned on social media in this way. 
The Petitioner also submitted copies of brief, similarly-worded articles from Medlndia.net, News­
Medical.net, and MedicalExpress.com, reporting the publication of a scholarly article of which the 
Petitioner was one of nine co-authors. The articles all derive from a press release from the journal's 
publisher, and quote the lead author of the article. The Petitioner's name is not mentioned. As with the 
tweets discussed above, the text of the articles does not indicate that the information reported is of major 
significance, and the Petitioner has not shown that this type of coverage is limited to contributions of 
major significance. 
The Petitioner relies primarily on letters from others in his field, who discuss articles that the Petitioner 
wrote or co-wrote. To varying degrees, the descriptions of the Petitioner's articles essentiall ara hrase 
the abstracts of those articles. For exam le, the abstract for 
published in Clinical Transplantation, 
reads in part: 
Short-and Ion -term outcomes were compared between contemporaneous I 
and donors .... Baseline estimated! was 
lower in ... Intraoperative and postoperative complications were similar, 
except a higher prevalence of <30 dayl I . and longer postoperative length of stay. 
After >20 years post-DN, systolic blood pressure was significantly higher among ____ .. and was diagnosed earlier. ... After donation, was 
4 
significantly lower fo I but slope ofl land rates ofl 
I I were not significantly different >20 years post-DN. Thus, 
donation among carefully selected poses minimal perioperative risks and 
no added risk oflong-tentj I 
A letter from the director of the Center for at the Clinic reads, in part: 
[The Petitioner] and his co-researchers examine the short-and long-term outcomes of 
contemporaneous [The Petitioner] and his team 
found a similarincidence of intraoperative and postoperative complications in both groups 
but did discover an increase in hospital stay and incidence of in the donors 
years of age. They also uncovered a higher incidence ofhype1iension in donors and 
found that onors became hypertensive earlier after donation. The study also found 
that the I was also lower in the donor cohort, but 
there was no significant difference in the rates of progression tol I I I after following these donors for over 20 years after donation. This study was 
particularly unique and noteworthy in the transplant community because it followed the 
donor cohorts forover20 years, allowing researchers and surgeons to assess thelong-tenn 
impacts of donation. Based on these observations, [the Petitioner] concluded that 
with the increasing demand fon I transplants, that if carefully selected, donors 
years of age post minimal perioperative risks and no added risk of I 
disease, thus allowing donors to serve as viable I donors. 
The above description repeats the information from the abstract, using less technical language, but does 
not explain why the article is of major significance in the field. The study may have been the first, or 
among the first, to follow this specific donor cohort over a long period of time, but the Petitioner has not 
shown how this information has affected his field. As noted above, "Letters that specifically articulate 
how the person's contributions are of major significance to the field and their impact on subsequent work 
add value." 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The Petitioner asserts that his article is 
significant because it "increas[ es] available organs by expanding thee=]criteria of donors," but he 
submits no evidence that any such expansion has actually occurred, which might establish the major 
significance of the contribution. Rather, his article indicates that individuals I I have been 
donating! for more than 20 years and that have become 
more common." The Petitioner does not show that the study is, itself, an original contribution of major 
significance. 
Furthermore, similarities in wording are consistent with common authorship of the letters. Describing 
another Clinical Transplantation article, the !Clinic official states: 
__________________ are rare complications that are 
difficult to diagnose and manage. Patients with these complications can bleed to death if 
not intervened in a timely manner. . . . [The Petitioner] discusses how the man a ement 
of such complications has changed over different eras from rimaril eras from primary 
now by I or lesions. 
Based on his experience, he also suggests that I I the lesion is better than I in most cases because of the higher risk of 
5 
A letter from the division chief of transplant surgery at the University of ___ Medical Center 
includes a very similar passage: 
and I lare rare complications that are 
difficult to diagnose and manage. Patients with these complications can bleed to death if 
not intervened in a timely manner. In this case series, [the Petitioner] discusses how to 
manage these com lications, how the techni ues used have changed over different eras 
from rimaril management now by I I 
lesions. [The Petitioner], through actual clinical experience, 
also suggests thad I is better than in most cases because of 
the higher risk of 
The first three sentences quoted above also appear in a letter from a professor at the University of I 2 2 Very similar wording also appears in a letter from a professor atl I University: 
These are rare complications that are difficult to diagnose and manage, and patients with 
these complications can bleed to death if intervention is not provided in a timely manner. 
In this study, [the Petitioner] also discusses how the management of such complications 
has changed over different eras from rimaril 
management by lesions. From ex erience, [the 
Petitioner also provides clinical advice, suggesting that is better than 
in most cases because of the higher risk o ____ 
The letters describe the Petitioner's published work, but they do not establish its major significance in the 
field. Sometimes the letters summarize the publications without comment, and at other times there are 
brief comments using phrases such as "of particular importance," "of great interest," and "extremely 
educational and useful," and such assessments are insufficient to establish the importance of the 
contribution. Some letters attest that the Petitioner's work has had a significant impact on the field, but 
off er no specific corroboration for such claims. With little or no further elaboration, such statements do 
not suffice to establish that the Petitioner's original contributions have been not only useful, helpful, or 
interesting, but of major significance as the criterion requires. 
A number of the letters describing the Petitioner's published work also do not demonstrate the original 
nature of the Petitioner's contributions. For example, a letter indicates that one of the Petitioner's articles 
"supported the proposed policy of requiring at least six weeks of I dysfunction for a 
candidate to be qualified for a simultaneous! I tt·ansplant." Based on this statement, it appears 
that the policy had already been proposed. It is entirely proper for such recommendations to rely on 
empirical evidence gathered from studies such as the Petitioner's, but it appears that the original, 
significant contribution lies in the proposal itself rather than in one of an unknown number of studies 
supporting that proposal. For another example, the Petitioner has transplanted! from I I 
2 The similar, at times identical, language in the submitted letters undermines their probative value, because the shared 
language "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and calls into question the persuasive value of the 
letters' content." Hamalv. US.Dcp 'tofHomcland Sccurity,No.19-2534, slip op. at 8,n.3 (D.D.C.June 8,2021). 
6 
I donors intd !recipients. Letters in the record state that this practice increases 
the supply of donor I but the record does not show that the practice began with the Petitioner; 
rather, he was the first surgeon to employ the practice in I This, however, does not 
demonstrate the original nature, or significance of the practice to the field as a whole. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that his original contributions have major 
significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to satisfy this criterion through his roles at land the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons (ASTS). The Director determined that the Petitioner had not shown his 
roles with those organizations to be leading or critical. On appeal, the Petitioner only addresses his mle 
atl I We consider his earlier claims regarding the ASTS to be abandoned. 3 
The chief medical officer of I I stated that the Petitioner has a leading role "as the Director of 
__ Transplantation." The petitioner must establish that "the department or division for which the 
person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation." 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 appendix. The Petitioner does not show that I I transplantation program has 
a distinguished reputation in its own right as required. 
The chief medical officer also described the Petitioner's duties in "patient care," "teaching," and 
"research." These responsibilities appear to be routine for medical school faculty members, although 
specific duties will vary from person to person, and do not demonstrate a leading or critical role. 
For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those 
of a division or department of the organization or establishment. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
appendix. The Petitioner has not established that his work atl lmeets this high standard. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the chairman of 
Department of Urology, indicating that the Petitioner is a "representative of the Faculty Senate where he 
serves diligently on our COMLS Faculty Council." The letter is dated two months after the petition's 
filing date and does not indicate when the Petitioner began serving in this capacity. The Petitioner's own 
curriculum vitae, submitted atthe time of filing, did not list this position. Therefore, there is no evidence 
that the Petitioner served on the Faculty Senate at the time he filed the petition, as required by 8 C.F.R 
§ I 03 .2(b )(1 ). As a result, we need not consider the question of whether that appointment constitutes 
either a leading or critical role. 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
7 
The Petitioner has not established that he has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign#ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner states that his $350,000 annual salary froml I meets this criteria. In support of this 
assertion, the Petitioner cited data from the U.S. Department of Labor. The data relates to "Surgeons, 
Except Ophthalmologists" nationally, in Ohio, and in the I I area, both generally and in the 
"Education Indus try." Average yearly figures range from $148,158 to $277,510. 
The Director requested salary evidence specific to transplant surgeons, the Petitioner's claimed field. In 
response, the Petitioner submitted third-party survey data revealing a number of disparate salary ranges. 
Salary.com indicates the salary range for transplant surgeons in is is $212,731 to $303,446. 
Ziprecrniter. com provides a much wider range for transplant surgeons in fmm $24,266 to $409,473. 
Ziprecrniter also shows significant variations from city to city in and from one specialty to another. 
Therefore, these divergent and inconsistent figures would not fully establish salary in relation to others in 
the field. 
The Petitioner submitted salary data for surgeons at the University of land the University of I 4 The Petitioner does not establish that these figures are representative of the field. 
Furthermore, the data froml I shows that the individuals are paid separately for different 
responsibilities. One surgeon's total compensation of $350,000 per year includes $50,000 as a section 
chief, $60,000 as a professor, and $105,000 as a physician surgeon; the submitted table does not account 
for the remaining $135,000 per year. The Petitioner does not show whether his own salary is divided in 
this manner. If the Petitioner's non-surgical responsibilities, such as teaching duties, augment his income, 
then it would be more appropriate either to compare the Petitioner's total compensation with that of other 
transplant surgeons with comparable duties, or to consider only that portion of his salary that pe1iains 
directly to his work as a surgeon. 
The evidence submitted by the Petitioner does not establish that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field of transplant surgery. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
4 Even if comparison within individual institutions were an appropriatemeasure, the Petitioner does not submit such data 
forothertransplantsurgeonsatL___Jwhichmightprovidea usefulcomparison. 
8 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has satisfied 
the letter of two regulatory criteria, but the nature of these criteria is such that many researchers can 
satisfy them even though they have not earned sustained national or international acclaim. Publication 
of research results, and peer-reviewing the research of others, are common factors in academia, rather 
than necessarily establishing sustained national or international acclaim at the top of the field. The 
Petitioner has not shown that his work demonstrates sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
dismiss the appeal for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 22, 2023 In Re: 27422937 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(1 )(A). This first preference 
(EB-1) classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, as required. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who has displayed her work and offers art instruction to beginners via her 
social media account. She intends to continue working as an artist through creating and marketing her 
own artistic work, and by conducting art classes to children between the age of four and fifteen. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and artistic display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and we agree with that determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) evidentiary criteria 
relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards (i), membership (ii), and original 
contributions (v). She does not assert eligibility under the judging (iv), authorship (vi), leading or 
critical role (viii), high salary (ix), or commercial success (x) criteria. Therefore, we deem these issues 
to be waived and will not address these criteria in our decision. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N 
Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). We have reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements of at least three criteria. 1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. According to the plain 
language ofthe regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the evidence must establish that the Petitioner 
is the recipient of prizes or awards, that the awards are nationally or internationally recognized, and 
that each prize or award is one for excellence in the field ofendeavor. See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2 appendix, https://www .uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 ( noting relevant 
1 While we may not discuss every document in the record, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
2 
considerations in determining if the award or prize meets this criterion, include, but are not limited to, 
the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes 
or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on 
competitors). 
As evidence of her lesser national or international awards, the Petitioner submitted certificates from 
an art promotion organization,! I[L-], regarding artwork that she had submitted to L­
as paid entries in its art competitions. According to the internet material submitted by the Petitioner 
about L-, its mission is to "help[] today's artists to market their art." L-offers art competitions on a 
monthly basis to "amateur and professional artists" who may submit digitized entries oftheir work on 
a sliding fee basis -"$14 for 1 to 2 entries and $24 for 3 to 5 entries." There is no limit to the number 
of entries an artist may submit as long as the fees are paid. However, the pool of entries submitted 
for L-'s consideration is limited by how many entries the contestants are willing to pay for. 
L-'s internet material indicates "[t]he top winning artists for each exhibition will be promoted and 
circulated to over 550+ major News Outlets, Premium Fox, CBS, NBS, Affiliate Sites, Guaranteed 
inclusion on Google News & Bing News and Social Media Inclusion." L-notes "the winning images 
will be seen by an international audience of gallery directors, art collectors and art consultants .... the 
winning entries will be featured on [L-' s online gallery] for one month and then remain in [L-'s] 
archive gallery for five (5) years. By having their work on the [L-] website, winning artists should 
increase exposure to their work, enhance their resume and create an increased number ofbacklinks to 
their own website." 
In the request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that she had not demonstrated 
that the claimed awards were nationally or internationally recognized and requested additional 
documentary evidence in support of her eligibility under this criterion. The Director stated that such 
evidence should demonstrate the criteria used to grant the awards, their significance (including the 
national or international recognition associated with the awards), the reputation ofthe organization or 
panel granting the awards, the geographic scope ofthe awards and any limitations on competitors, the 
number of awards or prizes granted, evidence related to previous award winners, and public 
announcements of the awards. 
In response, the Petitioner stated that her "special merit" and "special recognition" awards from L-, 
along with the submitted information about L-"are sufficient to establish that her awards are 
recognized both nationally and internationally." The Director denied the petition, in part, concluding 
that the evidence submitted was insufficient to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to her "special merit" award from L-for her entry entitled 1~---~ 
among other L-awards, noting that in this competition "over 1,000 contestants from over 30 countries 
in the world competed." She states that she "submitted multiple awards she received in [L-'s] 
competitions ... [which] clearly satisfies the requirements that the prize or award be recognized 
nationally or internationally and that the award or prize is for excellence in the field of endeavor." We 
disagree. 
L-'s internet materials indicate that it receives digitized art entries from amateur and professional 
artists living in various countries for consideration in its monthly fee-based competitions. While the 
3 
pool of competitors willing to pay for the entry of their digitized artwork stems from international 
locations, this fact alone does not substantiate the Petitioner's claim that the awards given to the 
winners of L-' s competitions are internationally or even nationally recognized awards for excellence 
in the field of endeavor. 
For instance, the evidence does not sufficiently describe the evaluative criteria used by L-in selecting 
the winning entries in its competition. If an artist's entry is selected as a "winner," the artist is eligible 
to have their artwork digitally promoted by L-to various media outlets and the artwork will also appear 
in L-'s own web gallery. Here, the evidence suggests that L-is engaged in marketing artwork for 
artists via its website and fee-based competitions, not offering nationally or internationally recognized 
art competitions which grant prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. We conclude 
that this evidence is of little probative value to the issue at hand. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 
at 369. The Petitioner has not met her burden in demonstrating that the certificates she earned through 
L-' s art competitions meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. Therefore, this criterion 
has not been met. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner previously filed another petition seeking the EB-1 extraordinary 
ability classification, which was denied in March 2020. The Petitioner contends on appeal that since 
the Director determined that she met this criterion in her first denied petition, the Director erred in 
concluding that she did not meet this criterion when denying the instant petition. USCIS is not required 
to approve applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of 
prior affirmative determinations which may have been erroneous. See Matter ofChurch Scientology 
Int'!, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 
1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). Furthermore, we are not bound to follow a contradictory decision of a 
service center. La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *3 (E.D. La. 
2000), affd, 248 F.3d 1139 (5th Cir. 2001). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must provide evidence of their membership in an association and 
demonstrate that such membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an 
academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
The Petitioner initially asserted that she met this criterion based on membership in three organizations, 
thel Isociety, Portrait Society of America, and the Pastel Society of America [PSA]. The 
Director determined that the initial evidence did not provide sufficient evidence about the Petitioner's 
membership in these organizations or their membership requirements to establish that this criterion 
had been met. In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence she submitted did not 
establish that she is a member of an association in which membership is conditioned on outstanding 
4 
achievements in the field of endeavor as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field. He requested additional evidence to establish that the individuals who review prospective 
members' applications are recognized as national or international experts; the sections of the 
associations' bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership; and the sections of the bylaws 
discussing the qualifications required of those who review membership applications. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner narrowed her focus to just one organization, PSA, 
and submitted PSA's bylaws and a letter from its president [Mr. W-]. The Director reviewed the 
response, and then denied the petition, in part, concluding the Petitioner did not show that PSA 
members are required to have outstanding achievements to gain membership. He farther noted that 
Mr. W-'s letter expressed that PSA's members have a level of expertise in the field, but that his 
statements did not indicate that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that while PSA's bylaws "do not specifically state that members are 
required to have outstanding achievements they do make clear that admission of a member occurs only 
after evaluation of the applicant's artwork by a jury of at least three signature members." We have 
carefully reviewed the bylaws and other submitted evidence about PSA, and conclude that contrary to 
the Petitioner's general assertions about PSA's membership requirements, the bylaws provide four 
levels of membership within the organization, as follows: 
• Signature Member -shall be a person who (1) is engaged in the creation of pastel 
paintings and (2) has met the professional and other admission requirements. . . 
Admission of Full Member: Upon receipt of a membership application and the 
prescribed fees, a pastelist will have his or her submitted works evaluated by a jury of 
not less than three (3) Signature Members... The Jury will determine whether the 
works meet the established professional standards of the Society. 
• Associate Member -shall be a person who (1) is engaged in the creation of pastel 
paintings judged by the Society to meet the basic principles of the pastel field, (2) 
exhibits the potential ofmeeting the professional standards of a Signature Member and 
(3) meets such other prescribed admission requirements of an Associate Member as 
the Board may from time to time establish. 
• Honorary Member: A person, pastelist or non-pastelist, who has rendered either 
outstanding or distinguished services to the pastel field and/or other segments ofthe art 
world may be granted an Honorary Membership, provided that such person is not 
currently a Signature Member or an Associate Member of the Society. 
• Supporting Member -shall be any person who contributes financially to the Society 
and meets other criteria [i]ncluding but not limited to the payment of dues. 
The record contains the Petitioner's PSA membership certificate which reflects that she was 'juried" 
as an associate member in October 2019. Based on the descriptions provided above, an associate 
member of PSA meets the "basic principles of the pastel field," but is the next lowest level of 
membership immediately above that of a supporting member who simply gains membership by 
financially contributing to the organization. While the Petitioner's certificate indicates that she is a 
'juried" PSA member, PSA's membership requirements in its bylaws do not suggest that associate 
members must have "outstanding achievements" in order to gain this level of membership. Rather, it 
appears that honorary membership is PSA's only membership category which requires "outstanding 
5 
or distinguished services to the pastel field and/or other segments of the art world," and notably the 
bylaws also indicate that honorary memberships are not available to associate members, such as the 
Petitioner. 
In summary, while it appears that PSA may offer a level of membership in its Society that requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, the record does not show that this is the category of 
membership that the Petitioner holds. For the sake of brevity, we will not discuss other deficiencies 
in the evidence regarding whether the Petitioner's PSA membership meets the plain language of this 
criterion. This criterion has not been met. 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has 
she made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level ofmajor significance. 
The Petitioner did not initially identify a specific original artistic contribution that she has made. In her 
RFE response, she pointed to her Y ouTube channel "that teaches viewers around the world how to create 
step-by-step drawings, mostly in the pastel and pencil art mediums." She asserted that as her channel 
"has just under 100,000 subscribers, and in the cumulative, her videos have been viewed over 18 million 
times, [it] is an original artistic contribution of major significance further demonstrating that she is an 
artist of extraordinary ability who has attained both national and international acclaim in her field." She 
provided copies of her channel's internet pages showing a listing of the instructional videos that she 
posted in her channel with statistics regarding the number of shares, likes, and views that each video had 
garnered, as well as the total number of hours that viewers spent watching her videos as of October 2022 
(when she made the screenshots of her channel). The Director ultimately determined that while the 
Petitioner has developed a moderate viewership on A-, her art instruction contributions through this 
activity had not significantly impacted the field of art. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not give sufficient weight to "her channel's 
subscriptions and view numbers [which] unequivocally demonstrates that millions of viewers have 
benefited from her art lessons." However, we agree with the Director that without more, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that the "views" of her videos on You Tube translate to a showing that she meets 
the plain language requirements of this criterion. The Petitioner presented Y ouTube screenshots from 
October 2022 indicating that the number of subscribers to her channel at that time was 98,228, but this 
subscription information substantially post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility must be 
demonstrated at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Without more, the metrics for these 
videos do not support the Petitioner's assertion that she had made contributions of major significance at 
the time the petition was filed in February 2021. 
Regardless, the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that the availability of her videos on 
Y ouTube and subscribership to her channel signify original contributions of major significance in the 
field. As discussed, to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has not only made 
original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the arts. Major significance in 
6 
the field may be shown through evidence that her original art instruction methods or processes have 
been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. Here, the Petitioner has not provided 
objective, independent documentary evidence to show that her YouTube channel videos are of major 
significance in her field of endeavor. Chawathe, supra. 
For example, although the Petitioner provided screenshots from YouTube of her work, she did not offer 
evidence that her presence on Y ouTube resulted in the adoption of her art instruction methods by others 
involved in similar pursuits in the field, or otherwise engendered substantial interest from others with 
expertise within the field of endeavor. While the record indicates that the Petitioner has achieved a 
level of popularity in the art instruction industry through her Y ouTube channel, she has not 
demonstrated that her original work rises to the level of artistic or even business-related contributions 
of major significance in the field. 
The record, including the Y ouTube screenshots, does not sufficiently establish that the Petitioner's 
original work has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or has otherwise risen 
to the level of original contributions of major significance. As such, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that she meets this regulatory criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that 
a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a determination 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she is a dedicated artist who devotes part of her time to providing art instruction 
to beginners. But she has not shown that her artistic achievements have been recognized at the required 
level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that her work to date is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 22, 2024 In Re: 33347980 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Multinational Managers or Executives) 
The Petitioner, a distributor of natural hair cosmetic products, seeks to permanently employ the 
Beneficiary as its chief executive officer under the first preference immigrant classification for 
multinational executives or managers . See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l) 
(C), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(C). This classification allows a U.S. employer to permanently transfer a 
qualified foreign employee to the United States to work in a managerial or executive capacity. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has a qualifying relationship with the Beneficiary's former foreign 
employer. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An immigrant visa is available to a beneficiary who, in the three years preceding the filing of the 
petition, has been employed outside the United States for at least one year in a managerial or executive 
capacity, and seeks to enter the United States in order to continue to render managerial or executive 
services to the same employer or to its subsidiary or affiliate. Section 203(b )(l)(C) of the Act. 
The Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, must include a statement from an authorized 
official of the petitioning United States employer which demonstrates that the beneficiary has been 
employed abroad in a managerial or executive capacity for at least one year in the three years preceding 
the filing of the petition, that the beneficiary is coming to work in the United States for the same 
employer or a subsidiary or affiliate of the foreign employer, and that the prospective U.S. employer 
has been doing business for at least one year. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(j)(3) . 
The sole issue before us on appeal is whether the Petitioner established that it has a qualifying 
relationship with the Beneficiary's previous foreign employer, a Chinese company. 
To establish a "qualifying relationship," the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary's foreign 
employer and the proposed U.S. employer are the "same employer" or related as "parent and 
subsidiary" or as "affiliates." See section 203(b)(l)(C) of the Act; see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(i)(2) 
(providing definitions of the terms "affiliate" and "subsidiary"). 
Regulation and case law confirm that ownership and control are the factors that must be examined in 
determining whether a qualifying relationship exists between United States and foreign entities. See, 
e.g., Matter a/Church Scientology Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593 (Comm'r 1988); Matter ofSiemens Med. 
Sys., Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 362 (Comm'r 1986); Matter ofHughes, 18 I&N Dec. 289 (Comm'r 1982). 
Ownership refers to the direct or indirect legal right of possession of the assets of an entity with full 
power and authority to control; control means the direct or indirect legal right and authority to direct 
the establishment, management, and operations of an entity. Matter ofChurch Scientology Int'l, 19 
I&N Dec. at 595. 
The Petitioner has consistently claimed that it is a subsidiary of the Beneficiary's foreign employer 
based on that entity's ownership of98 percent ofits issued stock. The Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted a company statement attesting to the parent-subsidiary relationship, a statement 
from its accountant, and complete copies of its 2021 and 2022 federal income tax returns in support 
of this claim but determined the evidence was insufficient to establish the elements of ownership and 
control. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it provided documentation that was specifically requested in the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE) and contends that the Director did not adequately explain why 
it was insufficient to meet its burden of proof. 1 While we agree with the Director's determination 
that tax returns and a company statement alone are generally insufficient to demonstrate a qualifying 
relationship, the RFE did not provide the Petitioner with adequate notice of this fact. Therefore, we 
will consider the Petitioner's supplemental evidence submitted on appeal. 
The Petitioner resubmits the previously submitted tax returns, provides a new statement from its 
accountant, and submits the following corporate documentation: a copy ofits initial certificate offiling 
and certificate of formation filed with the Texas Secretary of State; two certificates of amendment 
filed with the Texas Secretary of State; and a stock transfer agreement executed in 2019, through 
which the foreign entity acquired its ownership interest in the U.S. company. This evidence 
corroborates the Petitioner's consistent claim that the foreign entity owns 98% of its issued shares. 
Therefore, we conclude the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that it is 
a subsidiary of the Beneficiary's foreign employer. As this issue formed the sole basis for denial of 
the petition, the Director's decision is withdrawn. 
However, there are two additional issues that warrant the remand of this matter to the Director. First, 
we note that a recent search of public information available from the Texas Comptroller of Public 
1 The Director's RFE issued on October 31, 2023, addressed the qualifying relationship eligibility requirement and 
informed the Petitioner that it could submit evidence including, but not limited to "a statement from an authorized official 
of your organization which indicates that you are the same employer or a parent, subsidiary or affiliate of the firm or 
corporation or other legal entity which employed the beneficiary abroad." The Director also advised the Petitioner that it 
could provide, among other items, copies of U.S. tax returns (including all attachments and schedules), as evidence 
showing "who owns and controls your organization." 
2 
Accounts shows that the Petitioner's right to transact business in the State of Texas has been 
"forfeited." See https://mycpa.cpa.state.tx.us/coa/coaSearchBtn. On remand, the Director should 
issue a new RFE and provide the Petitioner an opportunity to submit supplementary evidence of its 
company status and ongoing business operations in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8) and 
103.2(b )(16)(i). 
The Petitioner must also establish its ability to pay the Beneficiary's proffered wage of $60,000 per 
year from the time the priority date is established and continuing until the Beneficiary obtains lawful 
permanent residence. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(g)(2). Evidence of ability to pay generally must include 
copies of annual reports, federal tax returns, or audited financial statements. Id. 
The priority date is October 16, 2023, the date the Petitioner filed the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(d) 
( explaining how to determine a petition's priority date). The Petitioner previously submitted its 2021 
and 2022 federal tax returns, but its 2023 tax return was not available at the time it filed the petition 
or responded to the Director's RFE. As the matter will be remanded, the Director should request that 
the Petitioner provide its 2023 federal tax return, audited financial statements, or annual report, as well 
as any other evidence of its continuing ability to pay the proffered wage. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 22, 2024 In Re: 32500217 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidence requirement for this classification by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
prongs under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the record did not establish that she had the necessary sustained 
national or international acclaim and was one of the small percentage at the top of her field. The 
Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not established that she was coming to the United States 
to work in her area of claimed extraordinary ability. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant 
to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner ( or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in economics from the in Nigeria in 2018, and has 
worked in the areas of health economics and development economics. At the time of filing she was a 
reader (associate professor) at in Nigeria, as well as the acting 
head of the school's department of economics. She states that she intends to "continue working on 
applying my in-depth knowledge of health economics and applied econometrics to the design and 
development of economic models" in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, they must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the requisite three 
criteria, but did not show that the had sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the 
small percentage near the top of the field of economics. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director erred in his final merits analysis. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
disagree with and withdraw the Director's conclusion regarding the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), but nevertheless agree with his conclusion concerning her eligibility for 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have served in a 
role that was either leading or critical for an organization or establishment, or a department of division 
thereof: and that the organization, establishment, department, or division has a distinguished 
reputation. Evidence of a leading role may include a title and matching duties, and should indicate 
2 
that the petitioner is or was a leader. Evidence supporting a critical role should show that the petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or 
establishment's activities, or those of a division or department. Second, a petitioner must show that 
the organization or establishment, or department or division thereof, for which the leading or critical 
role was performed has a distinguished reputation. Factors may include the size, longevity, media 
coverage, awards, and industry rankings of the organization, establishment, department, or division. 
See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual F .2(b )( l ). 
The Director concluded, without analysis, that the Petitioner meets this criterion. In support of this 
criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence of her appointment as acting head of the Department of 
Economics atl Ifor a two-year period, which included a place in the school senate. She also 
submitted evidence of her appointment to various committees within I Icollege of social and 
management science. A letter from one of her colleagues described her as "a pillar of the Department 
of Economics" who has contributed to curriculum development and the accreditation of the 
department's undergraduate and postgraduate programs. This evidence sufficiently establishes that 
her role is leading as it pertains to the economics department, but not for I !overall. 
In support of the organization's distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submitted articles announcing 
I !ranking by The Times Higher Education as the highest in Nigeria in itsl I 
in 2022 and 2023, which the articles indicate is based upon the United Nations' Sustainable 
Development Goals (SGDs). According to the articles, these include measures of universities' 
"research on climate change, their use of energy and their preparations for dealing with the 
consequences of climate change." While this evidence may be sufficient to show thatl Ihas a 
distinguished reputation in these respects, it does not shed light on its overall academic reputation 
when compared to other universities, nor does it speak to the reputation ofl I economics 
department. Because the record does not demonstrate that the department for which the Petitioner 
performs a leading role enjoys a distinguished reputation, we disagree with and withdraw the 
Director's conclusion regarding this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Per the above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, 
and thus does not meet the initial evidence requirements for this classification. 1 However, as the 
Director's decision depended upon his analysis in the final merits determination, we will review the 
record to determine whether the Petitioner possesses the requisite levels of expertise and recognition 
in her field. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
1 The Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision that she does not meet two other criteria that she claimed. 
relating to her membership in associations in her field requiring outstanding achievements and her original contributions 
of major significance to her field. We will consider the evidence submitted in support of these criteria in reviewing the 
final merits determination. 
3 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director did not consider her response to the RFE in his 
decision, pointing to a sentence appearing in both. But this cannot be the case, as the Director granted 
the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which pertains to an individual's performance in a leading 
or critical role, after considering the additional evidence submitted by the Petitioner. 
In addition, the Petitioner's brief refers to the section of the users Policy Manual pertaining to the 
evidentiary criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires evidence of an individual's activity 
as a judge of the work of others in their field, in support of her assertion that the Director did not 
follow users policy when conducting the final merits determination. But this assertion is misguided, 
as in this second step ofthe analysis for this immigrant visa classification, we do not consider evidence 
under the individual evidentiary criteria. Rather, we evaluate whether the entirety of the evidence 
shows that the individual has sustained national or international acclaim in their field and that they are 
one of the small percentage at the top of that field. 
The Petitioner also challenges whether the Director reviewed the entirety of the evidence in making 
his determination in the final merits analysis, noting that he discussed evidence submitted in support 
of only three of the evidentiary criteria which she claimed to meet. However, in addition to analyzing 
the evidence regarding the Petitioner's activity as a judge of the work of others, her authorship of 
scholarly articles, and her performance in leading roles, the Director also evaluated the reference letters 
and citations to the Petitioner's scholarly articles. While the Director did not mention the evidence of 
her memberships in professional associations in his decision, the Petitioner does not articulate on 
appeal how this evidence demonstrates her acclaim at the national or international level or places her 
amongst the elite in her field. 
Along with her appeal brief, the Petitioner submits copies ofthree non-precedent decisions concerning 
petitions for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in which we remanded the matter 
to the Director for reconsideration of the evidence in final merits determinations, and urges us to do 
the same in her case. But these decisions were not published as a precedent and therefore do not bind 
users officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Also, in each of those cases we 
concluded that the Director had not considered the totality of the record and provided a thorough 
analysis of the evidence. As discussed above, in this case, the Director sufficiently addressed the 
record in his decision. 
Turning to that evidence, and specifically regarding the evidence of her participation as a peer 
reviewer, the Petitioner asserts that her review of transcripts submitted to "top scholarly journals" is 
not routine as stated by the Director. The record shows that she is a member of the editorial board for 
two journals, one of which is published by her college atl I She was also invited to review 
manuscripts submitted to four journals, including her college journal, and completed those reviews. 
But there is no evidence in the record that supports her assertion that these journals are "prestigious," 
or that serving as a peer reviewer for these particular journals is an indicator of her standing at or near 
the top of her field. In addition, while we acknowledge that peer review requires a certain level of 
expertise, the Petitioner has not shown that either the quantity or quality of her peer review activity 
for these journals reflects national or international acclaim. 
4 
The Petitioner also presented evidence of her service on several thesis examination panels for masters 
and doctoral degree candidates at I I On appeal she notes that she served as chairperson for 
many of these panels, but all of those assignments were made during her period as Acting Head of the 
economics department, as evidenced by her signature on the documents. The Petitioner also does not 
explain the significance of serving as chairperson on these panels, or how this is indicative of national 
or international acclaim. We agree with the Petitioner that this activity, together with her work as a 
peer reviewer for the journals mentioned above, meets the plain language of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(iv). But she has not established that it reflects the level of expertise and 
recognition required for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Regarding the evidence of the Petitioner's scholarly publications, she again bases her critique of the 
Director's decision on the relevant evidentiary criterion. Specifically, she asserts that the Director 
erred by focusing in his decision on the number of citations to those publications by other scholars in 
the Petitioner's field. But the Director correctly considered the evidence of her publications as well 
as the evidence of their recognition by other scholars and in the field of economics overall, as USCIS 
policy requires when conducting a final merits determination. 
To support the citation of her work by others, the Petitioner submitted a list of 40 articles for which 
she was listed as an author that she asserts were published in scholarly journals. However, we note 
that two of those articles are listed twice, and less than half of the listed articles are verified by 
documentary evidence in the record. In addition, the Petitioner submitted a copy of her profile from 
www.scholar.google.com which lists only 20 articles, several of which do not indicate that she was an 
author. As we noted at the outset, it is the Petitioner's burden of proof to establish that she meets the 
requirements for an individual of extraordinary ability, and that burden cannot be met through 
unsupported assertions. Here, the record does not support her assertions as to the quantity of her 
published work. 
In addition, as indicated in the Director's decision, the influence of her published work carries more 
weight than quantity when determining its recognition in the field. The Petitioner refers to the 
evidence of the number of citations to her published work, as indicated in her Google Scholar profile, 
and asserts that the Director must not have reviewed this information. But the Director referenced the 
evidence of the Petitioner's citations in his decision, and concluded that it was insufficient to establish 
her recognition or standing within her field. 
Moreover, the record does not include sufficient evidence to verify the number of citations she claims, 
as noted above, or to provide context for the number of citations to the Petitioner's published work. 
Even if we were to accept the number of citations reported on her Google Scholar profile, despite the 
listing ofnumerous articles not showing her as an author and/or not verified in the record, the Petitioner 
has not provided documentation which demonstrates that that number is indicative of national or 
international recognition in the field of economics, or places her amongst the few at the top of that 
field. 
Other documentation concerning the influence and recognition of the Petitioner's published work 
takes the form of reference letters from her collaborators and colleagues. For example, one of her 
colleagues atl !writes that he has collaborated with her on research projects, including a study 
of poverty reduction across several countries and a book chapter on disaster risk reduction strategies. 
5 
He also writes that her work on a project targeting poverty alleviation and food insecurity in Nigeria 
has been "recognized internationally for its excellence." While he provides further technical details 
about this project, the professor does not elaborate on how it has been recognized in the field of health 
economics. 
The record also includes evidence of the Petitioner's career in her field beyond her published work, 
including her position as a consultant research fellow in the 
I I of the A letter from 
the director of theI !states that in this role he solicited the Petitioner's input on reports and policy 
documents pertaining to economic recovery from the COVTD-19 pandemic, International Monetary 
Fund debt cancellation, and other economic issues concerning the member countries, including flagship flagship Economic Report on Africa. Another letter, from the economic affairs officer of 
r====}describes the Petitioner's work in developing improved economic models for three African 
countries and improving the performance of the I Ithrough her work. The acknowledgments 
section of three reports were submitted that evidence the Petitioner's contribution in research and data 
analysis, but neither the letters nor the acknowledgments indicate that she was responsible for 
authoring or editing these reports or played more than a supporting role in their drafting. 
Additional evidence pertains to the Petitioner's work as an educator at I I including her 
administrative role as head of the economics department, a position in which she is eligible to serve 
for two two-year terms. In addition to her participation on several masters and doctoral thesis defense 
committees as previously discussed, documents show that she was appointed as a member of the 
accrediting committee for her college atl land participated in the university's senate meetings, 
responsibilities which appear to stern from her role as a department head. A letter from the dean of 
the college confirms that as a department head, the Petitioner serves as a member of the university 
senate, serves in several boards and committees at the college level, and acts as a the department's 
chief examiner. The writer notes that her accomplishments in this role include overseeing the 
graduation of more than 40 undergraduate and graduate students and advancing a proposal to create a 
Centre for Economic Research and Data Analysis at I I While we have previously 
acknowledged that this role is a leading one for the economic department at I I this evidence 
does not show that the Petitioner's recognition as a health economist and educator extends beyond 
I Ito the national or international level. 
As extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition necessarily entails a 
judgement call, it cannot be established through meeting at least three ofthe evidentiary criteria alone. 
The final merits determination is the ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has 
extraordinary ability as demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. 
Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). Here, the record shows that the Petitioner is a respected 
associate professor atl land worked in a short-term position as a research fellow at a United 
Nations agency, where she contributed to reports and economic models. But it does not establish that 
her work in either of these roles has let to sustained national or international acclaim. In addition, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that her published work has had an influence on others in the field of 
economics to an extent consistent with sustained acclaim, or that it has led to her recognition as one 
of the small percentage at the top of the field. Accordingly, we conclude that she has not established 
her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
6 
C. Coming to the United States to Work in Field of Endeavor 
As noted above, a petitioner seeking eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability must seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability. To meet this 
requirement, a petitioner must submit "clear evidence" that they will do so, which may include letters 
from prospective employers, evidence of prearranged commitments, or a statement detailing their 
plans on how they intend to continue their work in the United States. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
The Director determined, based in part on the Petitioner's residence and employment in Nigeria, that 
the record did not include clear evidence of her intent to continue working in the field of health 
economics in the United States. Specifically, she concluded that the Petitioner's plan was insufficient 
since it merely expressed her "prospective hopes of finding or creating work." On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that her plan to create a consulting firm in the United States, through which she 
would offer economic models in the areas of poverty alleviation and health insurance, was sufficiently 
detailed. We agree, and withdraw the Director's conclusion regarding this issue. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the entire record 
and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20245185 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 23, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an art curator with a degree in architecture, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a degree in architecture from the National University 
Argentina, in 1997 and established her own architectural studio in that country, while also serving for 
ten years onl I faculty. The Petitioner entered the United States in 2014 as a B-2 nonimmigrant 
visitor, and later changed her status to that of an F-1 nonimmigrant student. Since movingtol I 
Texas, she has started two businesses, specifically an art gallery and a company that makes fashion 
accessories. The record contains a two-year job offer, which the Petitioner accepted, for employment 
as a curator with a I art gallery. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, pertaining to display at artistic 
exhibitions. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets all six claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criterion 
pertaining to display. We further conclude that she has submitted sufficient evidence to show that she 
participated as a judge of the work of others.1 We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 Letters in the record indicate that the Petitioner served on a jury at the Municipal Museum of Art I and ona 
jury to select works for an exhibition mounted in tribute to a former professor. The Director determined that the 
submitted evidence "does not show that the beneficiary's contributions involved reviewing any work or otherwise acting 
as a judge of the work of others." We disagree. The letters, on their face, describe judging activity. Issues such as "the 
criteria for participation ... as judge" and the significance and scope of the events where the Petitioner served as a judge 
would have been relevant in the final merits determination, if the proceeding had advanced to that stage, but they do not 
affect the threshold question of whether she served as a judge of the work of others. Because the Petitioner's work 
described above establishes that she participated as a judge of the work of others, we need not address the Petitioner's 
assertion thatherwork as a curatoralsoentailsjudgingthe work ofothers. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner was a recipient of the Prize at thel I International Biennial of Architecture 
in 1991. The Director determined that the award was regional rather than national or international. 
On appeal, the Petitioner repeats her prior assertion that the I I Biennial "is one of the most 
important architectural events inl showing the workof"prominent figuresofinternational 
architecture" from around the world. The regulation requires that the prize or award itself is nationally 
or internationally recognized; the Petitioner cannot meet her burden of proof solely based on the 
reputation of the awarding entity, or of the event where the award was presented. The Petitioner has 
submitted background materials about the Biennial but these documents do not mention the Prize. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that the Prize is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner initially submitted an article about the Petitioner's construction of architectural models 
from thel 12009 issue ofDeco &Arquitectura. The Petitioner asserts that "Deco & Arquitectura 
is a major Argentine trade publication," but cites no evidence to support this assertion. 
In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted another article, from the Spanish 
online publicationLa Cara Buena del Mundo, profiling the Petitioner's U.S. company that makes fashion 
accessories using I obtained from an interior decorating firm. First, we note that 
the article is dated I eight days after the petition's filing date. The Petitioner must meet 
all eligibility requirements as of the petition's filing date. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Also, the Petitioner must "establish thatthe circulation( onlineor in print) orviewership is high compared 
to other statistics." 6 USCIS Policy ManualF.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/po1icymanua1. The 
Director concluded that the Petitioner did not submit circulation data for either publication. On appeal, 
the Petitioner acknowledges that she did not provide circulation data, but she contends that this "does not 
mean that [ each publication] is not a major trade publication." The Petitioner asserts: "These publications 
are intended to be read by individuals within the art, design, and architecture industry, which publish 
articles that are related to that field. Thus, establishing that these publications are considered major trade 
publications." The specialized subject matter shows that Deco & Arquitectura is a trade publication, but 
not every trade publication is a major trade publication. The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that 
the publications qualify as "major"; there is no presumption that every trade publication is a major trade 
publication. Here, the Petitioner has not established thatDeco &Arquitecturais a major trade publication. 
The Petitioner has also not submitted evidence to support her claim that La Cara Buena del Mundo is a 
trade publication "intended to be read by individuals within the art, design, and architecture industry"; the 
Petitioner has not submitted information about the publication's content apart from the one submitted 
article. But the larger point is that the Petitioner has not established that La Cara Buena del Mundo 
qualifies as a major trade publication or other major media. 
3 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner asserted that she performed in a leading role for her own 
architectural studio that she had operated in Argentina. Because the Petitioner founded and ran the 
business, we agree with the Petitioner that she had a leading role with that studio. But she must also 
establish that the studio has a distinguished reputation, defined as marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence or befitting an eminent person. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner asserts that her studio's distinguished reputation is evident from its "prestigious and 
renowned clients." The identification of some of the studio's clients, however, does not establish that the 
Petitioner's firm has a distinguished reputation in the absence of fmiher documentation. The record does 
not establish how and why those clients came to choose the Petitioner's studio, nor does it provide 
information about the projects the studio undertook for those clients. 
We note that one of the claimed clients is, itself, an architectural design firm. The Petitioner submitted 
printouts from that firm's website, indicating that the architectural design firm has won more than 20 
awards and honorable mentions "in national and international competitions." The Petitioner has not 
established that her own studio has earned similar accolades. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other signtficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from an accountant, indicating that the Petitioner earned over 
Arg$50,000 per year, whereas "[t]he income of other artists did not exceed ... $22,000.00 per year." The 
letter cites no sources and includes no supporting evidence. The English translation of the letter refers to 
the Petitioner as an "architect-artist" ("arguitecta-artista" in the original Spanish) while comparing her 
earnings to "[t]he income of other artists" ("artistas")rather than other "architect-artists." 
The Director determined that "the record does not contain evidence of the beneficiary's salary and 
remuneration," and that the Petitioner did not submit data to allow a comparison of the Petitioner's 
earnings to those of others in the field. On appeal, the Petitioner quotes the figures from the accountant's 
letter, but these figures do not directly document the Petitioner's income; specify the services that the 
Petitioner performed; identify any source for the claimed average income of "other artists"; or show that 
the comparative figures relate to individuals performing similar work to that of the Petitioner. We agree 
with the Director that the letter does not provide enough information to make the comparison that the 
regulatory language demands. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The submitted evidence 
depicts a largely local reputation, first inl land later in 
Furthermore, we note that some of the Petitioner's evidence concerns her work in architecture, and 
other evidence relates to her work as an art curator, while a small amount of material in the record 
addresses her work making fashion accessories. While the Petitioner refers to herself as a "visual 
artist," it is not apparent that the use of this umbrella term is sufficient to place all her different 
endeavors into one identifiable, collective "field." This is particularly relevant in the context of the 
Petitioner's architectural work, which appears to have ended when she left Argentina in 2014. The 
Petitioner must establish that she seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
claimed extraordinary ability. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. The Petitioner relies heavily on 
her architectural work in her claims to have satisfied several criteria, such as those relating to prizes 
and a leading or critical role. The Petitioner's business ventures during seven years in the United 
States have not involved architecture, but rather working as an art curator, and making fashion 
accessories, and therefore she has not shown that she intends to continue working in the field of 
architecture. As a result, any recognition she may have previously earned as an architect is of 
peripheral relevance to her intended work as an art curator and creator of fashion accessories. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 23, 2024 In Re: 32915563 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he meets at least of three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations 
and therefore did not satisfy the initial eligibility requirements for this classification. 1 The matter is 
now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 2 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; they seek to enter 
United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United 
States has substantial prospective benefits for the country. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a two-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time 
1 The Director initially denied the petition on March 20, 2023, and the Petitioner appealed that decision to our office. On 
August 30, 2023, we remanded the matter to the Director for further consideration and issuance of a new decision. 
2 We decline the Petitioner 's request for oral argument. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(b)(2). 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391-392 (5th Cir. 2022); Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a board-certified gastroenterologist specializing in pancreatology, with 22 years of 
experience in medicine and medical research. He seeks to continue his work in this field in the United 
States. 
The Petitioner does not claim to qualify for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time 
achievement. Accordingly, he must submit evidence meeting at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) by providing evidence that he has authored scholarly articles in 
Gastroenterology and other professional publications. The Director further concluded that the 
Petitioner demonstrated he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in his field and therefore 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The record supports the Director's conclusion that 
the Petitioner satisfied these two criteria. 
The Director also addressed the Petitioner's claim that he could satisfy the criteria related to his receipt 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes, published materials about him and 
his work, and original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iii) and (v). However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets any of 
these criteria. Because the Director determined the Petitioner satisfied only two of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), their decision did not include a final merits determination. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's discussion of the original contributions criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) contains numerous errors of law and fact, including the same errors that 
previously resulted in our decision to remand this matter to the Director for entry of a new decision. 
The Petitioner does not address or contest the Director's conclusions that he did not satisfy the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter of0-
R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 
2012)). Therefore, we will limit our discussion to the original contributions criterion. 3 
3 The Petitioner has not claimed eligibility under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (vii), (viii), and (x). 
2 
In our prior remand decision, we observed that the Director's analysis of this criterion contained 
several errors. First, we noted that the first decision, issued on March 20, 2023, misstated the 
Petitioner's medical specialty and included a list of exhibits that did not correspond to the documents 
he provided. Second, we observed that the decision overlooked relevant evidence that the Petitioner 
did provide in support of this criterion. Finally, we determined that the Director applied an improper 
standard by concluding that the Petitioner failed to provide "extensive documentation" in support of 
the original contributions criterion, a requirement that is not stated in the plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that, although the Director issued a new request for evidence (RFE) 
on remand and a new decision, they "made no attempts to correct the record or consider the other 
recommendations made by the AAO." We agree with the Petitioner that the Director's new decision 
repeats certain errors. The first paragraph of the Director's discussion of the original contributions 
criterion appears to have been copied verbatim from the prior decision issued on March 20, 2023, and 
includes the same references to evidence that the Petitioner did not submit. 4 The decision also includes 
an observation that the record does not contain "extensive documentation" showing that the 
Petitioner's original contributions have been of major significance. However, in both the new RFE 
issued on remand and in the decision before us on appeal, the Director discussed the Petitioner's 
evidence and explained why it was deemed insufficient to demonstrate his eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Accordingly, because the Director adequately explained the specific reasons for denial, we do not find 
it necessary to remand this matter to the Director for a second time and will instead address the 
Petitioner's eligibility under the original contributions criterion. For the reasons provided below, we 
conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
In evaluating evidence submitted under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
we must determine whether a given petitioner's contributions are original and whether they are ofmajor 
significance in the field. Relevant evidence may include published materials about the significance of 
the person's original work; testimonials, letters and affidavits about the person's original work; 
documentation that the original work was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; 
and patents or licenses deriving from the work or evidence ofits commercial use. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing the evaluation of initial 
evidence ofextraordinary ability under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). The evidence should 
demonstrate, for example, contributions that have been widely implemented in the field, have 
significantly impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
In his initial letter in support of the petition, the Petitioner stated that his research work in the field of 
pancreatology "was able to establish the benefit of early treatment with a new medicine for acutely ill 
pancreatic disease patients" noting that "until recently there was no definite treatment of this disease 
except for supportive care." The Petitioner indicated that his 2015 article published in 
Gastroenterology was recognized by the journal's editors as a significant contribution and that 
4 The Petitioner asserts on appeal that, based on the Director's statements, he believes the record of proceedings includes 
evidence submitted by another individual and that certain evidence he submitted may be missing. We have reviewed the 
record in its totality and confirm that no unrelated evidence has been erroneously incorporated into the record. Further, all 
supporting evidence referenced by the Petitioner in his supporting statements is accounted for in the record ofproceedings. 
3 
"multiple other commentaries by experts lauded his achievement." Finally, he stated that "multiple 
national and international researchers have confirmed the significance" of this work, and that it has 
"led to a major change in the way we treat patients with acute pancreatitis early in the course of 
disease." 
The Petitioner provided his publication and citation record from Google Scholar indicating that he had 
received 119 cumulative citations to his body ofpublished work, which included 14 articles published 
in professional journals. The fact that the Petitioner has published articles that other researchers have 
referenced is not, by itself: indicative of a contribution of major significance. Therefore, publications 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." Rather, the appropriate analysis is to determine whether a petitioner has shown that his 
research findings, factoring in citations and other corroborating evidence, have been considered 
important at a level consistent with the plain language of this criterion. 
The evidence reflects that the Petitioner's most cited article was published in Gastroenterology in 
2015. The article, titled 
________ had been cited 58 at times as of February 2023, when the Petitioner filed 
the petition. The Petitioner also submitted evidence that two of his articles, published in 2012 and 
2019, had been cited 22 and 19 times, respectively. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
or other written work. While the number of citations will be considered in evaluating whether an 
individual publication has received recognition commensurate with a contribution of major 
significance in the field, it is the Petitioner's burden to articulate and establish the significance or 
relevance ofthe citations to his articles. Such significance may be shown, for example, by submitting 
evidence demonstrating that the citation count is unusually high in the field, or by demonstrating that 
the number of citations is comparable to that received by other articles the field views as majorly 
significant. 
In support of his claim that his published work has been highly cited, the Petitioner provided an article 
titled "Global status of acute pancreatitis research in the last 20 years," which was published in 
Medicine in 2022. The Petitioner stated that this study reveals that "the number of citations to 
pancreatic studies ( overall and per study) were many folds lower than studies focusing on the subjects 
relating to General medicine gastroenterology." He also asserted that by extrapolating this data and 
making "data adjustments," his citations "could have been 10 times higher if [his] area of primary 
interest was in General Gastroenterology." In addition, the Petitioner, citing his own research on the 
limited number of pancreatology specialists in the United States, emphasized that "since overall 
research studies in highly specialized fields are less common ... the citation count stays low even if 
the work is of similar or ( even) greater significance compared to more general subject studies." Based 
on these claims, he concluded that any perception that his work is not highly cited should be attributed 
to the lack of researchers with deep knowledge of the field. 
In the RFE issued on remand, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's assertion that the submitted 
Medicine study supports his claim that his own research, particularly his 2015 article in 
Gastroenterology, has been highly cited. However, the Director pointed to a statistic stated in the 
Medicine article, indicating that "for the 20-year time period studied, the average citation rate for the 
4 
United States was 27. 71." The Director acknowledged that the cumulative number of citations 
received by the Petitioner's 2015 article was greater than this average but concluded that the evidence 
was insufficient to establish that this published work had been recognized as a medical or scientific 
contribution of major significance. 
The Petitioner maintains that the Director overlooked the fact that the study published in Medicine 
included research conducted in the last 20 years. He contends that his Gastroenterology article "did 
not have enough years to make [the] comparison fair." He further asserts that "if the statistics are 
analyzed in depth and year by year citations after publication are examined, the citation count for my 
study is in the top 2 percentile." 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the average citation data provided in the Medicine 
article did not allow for a "fair" comparison with his own citation record. While this claim may be 
valid, it is the Petitioner's burden to provide probative evidence that will allow for a meaningful 
comparison if he seeks to rely on his citation record as evidence to support this criterion. 
Here, the information contained in the Medicine study does not provide adequate support for the 
Petitioner's claim that the number of citations his 2015 Gastroenterology article received is "in the 
top 2 percentile" when compared to other research articles on acute pancreatitis published in 2015. 
He does not explain or document what statistics he "analyzed in depth" to reach this conclusion. Nor 
does the Medicine article provide support for the Petitioner's claim that his number of citations would 
ten times higher ifhe had published similarly significant work in a broader field of specialization. The 
stated purpose ofthe study of acute pancreatitis research published in Medicine was not to identify the 
most highly cited articles in this field based on their date of publication or to compare citation rates in 
this field to those in other fields of medical research. Rather, according to its authors, "[t]he study 
was conducted to determine the global status of [ acute pancreatitis] research" with a geographic focus 
on a selected set of 20 countries. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not sufficiently supported his claim that the 58 citations his 
Gastroenterology article received between its publication in 2015 and the filing ofthis petition in 2023 
are indicative of his research being recognized as a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Further, we note that highly cited publications alone are generally not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), absent evidence that they were of "major significance," as a citation history does not 
provide sufficient context to demonstrate the impact or importance of a given researcher's work in the 
field. 
We also acknowledge that the Petitioner provided evidence that Gastroenterology is a highly ranked 
journal within this medical field based on its impact factor. A publication's high ranking or impact 
factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not demonstrate the influence of 
any individual researcher within the field. That context must be provided by other evidence in the 
record. 
To establish the significance of citations to his research, the Petitioner also emphasized that "multiple 
national and international researchers have confirmed the significance" of his published work. In 
support of this claim, he provided a self-compiled list of 12 "selected recent research studies and 
articles where my original research was cited and significance of my work discussed," published 
5 
between 2016 and 2022. He did not, however, provide copies of the articles and we are therefore 
unable to review them or assess whether they support the Petitioner's claims. We agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner's self-prepared list ofclaimed notable citations to his work 
does not demonstrate how other researchers in his field have recognized the major significance of his 
research in the pancreatology or gastroenterology field. 
With respect to his 2015 article published in Gastroenterology, the record establishes that it was 
featured in the journal's editorial section, and that several other professional publications in the field 
published short articles that acknowledged the novelty of the Petitioner's pilot study, summarized the 
study's findings and noted the study's conclusion that the results "warranted further study in larger 
trials." This evidence recognizes the novelty of the Petitioner's research and the field's interest in the 
findings of his study at the time of the article's publication. However, without further context, this 
evidence alone does not demonstrate how the Petitioner's research findings have been widely 
implemented in the field or establish that his contribution has had an impact on further medical 
research or clinical practice at a level commensurate with "major significance." 
As noted, the Petitioner stated at the time of filing that his research "led to a major change in the way 
we treat patients with acute pancreatitis early in the course of disease." While a medical research 
contribution with a demonstrated impact on clinical practice could qualify as an original contribution 
of major significance, the record here, including the evidence discussed above, does not corroborate 
the Petitioner's claim that his published research has resulted in a "major change" in patient treatment 
protocols. He has not provided examples of citations to his work that would support this assertion and 
the citation count alone is not an indicator that the Petitioner's work has resulted in the claimed impact 
in his field. The published articles highlighting the Petitioner's 2015 Gastroenterology article mention 
the possibility of further study of the efficacy o for severe acute pancreatitis 
in larger trials; they do not conclude that the Petitioner's work had already resulted in a change in 
treatment protocols for patients with acute pancreatitis. 
We note that detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of a 
person's contributions may provide valuable context for evaluating a claimed original contribution of 
major significance. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). Here, the Petitioner 
has opted to rely on his own assertions regarding the nature and significance of his contributions in 
his field, even after the Director acknowledged his assertions and advised that he should submit 
"independent objective evidence" that his contributions have significantly influenced his field, 
including, among other items, detailed letters from experts. We agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner's own assertions regarding the impact of his work do not carry the same evidentiary weight 
or provide the same valuable context for evaluating his contributions. While the submitted evidence 
reflects the field's interest in his work, the record lacks sufficient evidence to support his claim that 
his research has directly resulted in a "major change" in how physicians treat patients with acute 
pancreatitis, nor does it establish that his research contributions are otherwise recognized as having 
major significance in the field. 
After reviewing the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, individually and collectively, we 
conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated he has made original contributions of major significance 
in the field and has therefore not satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 23, 2024 In Re: 31049640 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the classification's initial evidentiary criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I.LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthe petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur who seeks to continue his business activities in the United States. 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he is required to satisfy at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner has claimed in his petition and on appeal that he meets four of the ten criteria and 
otherwise qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The Director concluded that the evidence provided only met two of the claimed evidentiary criteria: 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), participation as a judge of the work of others, and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles. The record supports the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner satisfied these two criteria. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evident to establish that he 
meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), by having material published about him in major 
media, or 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), by making contributions of major significance to his field. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, the Director denied the 
petition without performing a final merits analysis. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20; see 
generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that his previously submitted evidence is sufficient to establish his eligibility. 
After reviewing the record, 1 we conclude that the Petitioner meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and therefore, meets at least three of the initial evidentiary grounds at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1 While our decision does not mention every document submitted, we have read and considered each one. 
2 
To establish eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), a petitioner must submit published material 
about themselves which appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media, 
relating to their work in the field in which they seek classification. 
Here, the Petitioner initially submitted a 2016 article from China Youth Daily about his 2015 novel 2, a 2015 article from China News Service about the 
same subject, and a 2008 article from the 21st Century Business Herald about the Petitioner's company I as well as information about the latter two publications. The Director issued a request for 
evidence, stating that the provided articles were not about the Petitioner's work in his field of 
extraordinary ability, and that furthermore the record did not establish that any of those articles' 
publications were a professional or major trade publication or other major media. In response, the 
Petitioner provided articles from China Enterprise News, Xinmin Weekly, The Morning Express, 
Southern Metropolis Daily, Nan Fang Daily Press, and Technology Entrepreneurship about his writing 
and business ventures, as well as supporting documentation regarding these publications. 
The Director concluded that while the Petitioner had provided published material about his work in 
his field, the record did not establish that any of this material came from professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Citing Braga v. Poulos, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. Jul. 6, 
2007), aff'd, 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (9th Cir. 2009), an unpublished federal district court case,3 the 
Director stated that the submitted evidence consisted of publications' "self-serving assertions" 
regarding circulation data, which USCIS was not obliged to accept. However, this conclusion 
overlooks record evidence that is not from the publications in question, such as the Wall Street Journal 
article about the 21st Century Business Herald. Additionally, we note that in Braga, the "self-serving" 
statement in question was a claim to be "The #1 Magazine ofMixed Martial Arts!", an assertion which 
was not supported by concrete information such as the circulation data provided by the Petitioner for 
several of the publications here. 4 Id. 
Upon review, we conclude that while it is not apparent that the Petitioner's fiction writing career 
constitutes work in his field of extraordinary ability, the press coverage of his corporate work is 
sufficient to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Because the Petitioner meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
and has overcome the Director's stated reason for denial, we will remand this proceeding so that the 
Director can conduct a final merits determination under the Kazarian framework. 5 The Director may 
2 The Petitioner co-authored this novel with B-L-. 
3 Federal district court cases, as well as unpublished cases, are only binding on the parties before them. However, such 
cases may be cited as persuasive authority. See. e.g., Matter ofK-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715, 718-19 (holding that federal district 
court decisions are not binding on the Board of Immigration Appeals, an administrative appellate authority); Wang v. 
Holder, 569 F.3d 531, 538 n.5 (5th Cir. 2009) (noting that unpublished opinions are not binding precedent but may be 
persuasive on the legal issues). 
4 Notably, the self-petitioner in Braga asked the court to take judicial notice of the relevant magazine's circulation records, 
which the court noted was an improperly late attempt to supplement the agency record. 
5 While the Petitioner also claims to have made contributions of major significance to his field under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a detailed discussion of this criterion would not affect the outcome of the decision. We will therefore 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofl-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 
3 
request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the new determination and any other issues. 
We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where the applicant did not othe1wise meet their burden 
of proof). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17513961 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a nephrologist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification , it did 
not demonstrate, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawath e, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a physician and clinical researcher in the internal medicine specialty of nephrology. 
At the time of filing, he was an attending physician, faculty member, and director of clinical research 
for the Division of Nephrology atl I inl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---{x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of these ten criteria and the record supports this 
determination. The Petitioner's documented service as a peer reviewer for professional journals 
constitutes participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or allied field under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner has also authored scholarly articles in professional publications in 
his field and therefore meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(vi). Finally, the record establishes 
that the Petitioner has served in critical roles for thel I Health system and demonstrates 
that his employer enjoys a distinguished reputation among U.S. medical institutions, thus satisfying 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the Petitioner has established that he meets the 
initial evidence requirements, we will discuss the totality of the evidence, including evidence 
submitted in support of additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), in the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
2 
acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for 
this classification. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner completed his initial medical training in India, where he received 
a bachelor of medicine and bachelor of surgery MBBS from! I University in 2000 and a doctor 
of medicine (MD) degree from University o in 2006. Subse uentl , he com leted an 
internship and residency in internal medicine at.__ _______________ __.between 
2008 and 2011, where he served as the chief medical resident in internal medicine from 2011 until 
2012. The Petitioner received his certification in nephrology from the American Board of Internal 
Medicine in November 2014 after completing a two-year fellowship at University ofl I at I I He currently serves as an attending physician, faculty member and director of clinical 
research inl l's Division of Nephrology. The record reflects that, since receiving 
his board ce1iification, the Petitioner has been able to achieve and sustain a national reputation as an 
expe1i in the research and treatment of rare kidney diseases and, more recently, in the treatment of 
COVID-19-related kidney injury. 
With respect to his experience judging the work of others, the Petitioner established that he has 
received and completed independent requests to review a substantial number of manuscripts for 
renowned professional publications. We find the Petitioner's judging experience, together with the 
achievements described further below, to be consistent with a dete1mination that he is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As noted, the Petitioner provided evidence that he serves in a critical role as an attending physician 
and director of clinical research in nephrology forl ~ al I hospital 
system. The record reflects that this prominent position has provided the Petitioner with opportunities 
to participate in high-profile clinical research consortia which have, in tum, garnered him wider 
reco ition as a leading expert in his field. Of note the Petitioner was invited to artici ate as 
s site investi atorforth _,___......------------.-------.--,-----,,------' '-------------~· The coordinator of this study.__ ____ ___,of Medical 
School, describes it as a multidisciplinary, multi-institutional study that was created 
0".__ __ _,emphasizes that while over 300 investi ators are involved in the.__ ____ _, study, 
the Petitioner was invited to join the grou 's committee, which is comprised of a much 
smaller team of researchers. As such,,..__ _ ___, states that the Petitioner should be considered a main 
author of several major studies that significantly impact the treatment of COVID-19 in critically ill 
patients. 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner's co-authored article, 
.__ ______________________________ _,' published in 
JAMA Internal Medicine, received major media attention upon publication from outlets that included 
3 
NPR, The Washington Post, BBC, USA Today and CNN. Further, the record reflects that the drug 
tocilizumab has since been approved by health authorities in the United Kingdom and elsewhere as a 
viable treatment option for critically ill COVID-19 patients. 
A letter frou_,_ __ ~--~-------_.American Society ofN ephrology (ASN), explains 
ificance of the Petitioner's paper ·j I 
'----......---.---------.-------.....,..... which was published in the Journal of the American Society of 
Nephrology (JASN). ~-~-~emphasizes that this research represents "the largest and most 
influential study of COVID-19 patients admitted to ICU who needed dialysis, and is invaluable to 
physicians, public health professionals and hospital administrators to anticipate the need for dialysis 
in critically ill patients with COVID-19 and ... to ensure adequate dialysis facilities and trained 
personnel."I ,IChief of the Division ofNephrology at University~------~ 
also discusses this "seminal article," noting that it served to "increase our understanding of the 
intersection between COVID-19 and AKI [ acute kidney injury] and guides treatment decisions by 
clinical physicians as we navigate this deadly pandemic about which know very little." In addition. 
the record reflects that ASN invited the Petitioner to present the study at its annuall I 
conference and that the editor-in-chief of JASN highlighted this article as one of the five most 
important studies published by the journal in 2020. 
Collectively, the expert opinion testimony in the record indicates that the Petitioner's high-profile 
research wit~ I has resulted in him becoming recognized as "one of the leading experts 
on how nef hrology intersects with COVID-19." In recognition of this expertise, the Petitioner was 
invited by 11 to generate and publish its official COVID-19 
guidelines for N ephrotic Synd.ro~S) patients, a population that is at higher risk of death from the 
diseaseJ ICEO o±l_J states that the guidelines developed by the Petitioner have been 
accessed by patients and practitioners thousands of times. 
In his role as director of clinical research at the Petitioner also serves as a 
principal site investigator and steering committee member of the '-------~-~------' I I I I is a multi-site research consmiium, funded by and the I I that aims to understand and advance treatments for nephrotic syndrome 
diseases. The record reflects that the Petitioner's contributions to the I , u , I group's published 
research have garnered him national recognition as a leading expert in the clinical research and 
treatment of NS. In this regard, the Petiti~ner provided evidence that he is one of a small number of 
nephrologists who has been designated b as a.__ ___________ __.' The record, 
which has been supplemented on appeal, includes ample evidence that practicing nephrologists, 
clinical researchers and phannaceutical companies recognize the Petitioner as a leading specialist in 
this field and have independently sought the Petitioner's expertise and collaboration on both the 
research and treatment of NS and other rare kidney diseases. The0' s states that the 
Petitioner was invited to presento~ ts activities at the organization's 2019 I I and emphasizes that he is regarded in the field as a "leading voice in~a-dv_o_c_a_t-in_g_fo~r 
kidney research." 
is described as "the onl or anization committed exclusively to accelerate research for effective treatment for 
.__ _______________ ___, and provide education and support that will improve the lives of 
those affected." 
4 
The record reflects that several of the Petitioner's other clinical research contributions have been 
highlighted in significant ways that have garnered him additional recognition in his field and which 
set him apart from other practicing nephrologists. For example, several of the expert recommendation 
letters submitted in support of the petition comment on the importance of the Petitioner's article 
which was published in BMC 
~N:_e_p_h-ro_l_o_g_y_a_n_d_w_a_s -th_e_s-,u-b-de_c_t_o_f_a_f_e_a_tu_r_e_a-1i-ic--l-e-in-th_e_A_S_N_p_u_b_li~cation Kidney News in 2020 .D 
.__ _____ ____. a professor at University ofl I ex~lains that kidney biopsy, 
while essential to advancing research of kidney diseases, is associated witht !complications, 
making it important to find interventions that reducel I risks. He states that the Petitioner's 
publication, which provides guidance on the safe and effective administration ofl I during 
biopsy "received significant attention amongst nephrologists and s ecialists working in allied fields." 
I I similarly describes the Petitioner's article on the use of in kidney biopsy as 
"practice changing research" in the field of clinical nephrology . .__ ___ ____.also discusses this 
research in his letter, noting that '"[d]ue to the significance of [the Petitioner's] publication on 
I Ito allnephrologists, we also used itin one ofASN's main educational tools, the "Kidney 
Self-Assessment Program" (KSAP), which "reviews the essentials of nephrology" for those preparing 
for board certification and re-certification in the field. 
~-----~[ an associate rofessorofmedicine atUniversi o 
the Petitioner's 2019 article em hasizes that 
~------~-----~ has been cited in UPTODA TE, which he describes as "a clinical 
design support resource relied on by hundreds of thousands of physicians to improve patient 
outcomes." I I explains that the Petitioner's was the first research study investigating the 
incidence of severe acute kidney injury among civilian I !victims and includes 
recommendations for recognizing and managing kidney injury among this population to ensure better 
patient outcomes. I l's letter also discusses the inclusion of the Petitioner's study in 
UPTODA TE, noting that the article now serves as "a valuable resource for every nephrologist and I lwho cares for adult patients withl I injuries in the United States." 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's research contributions shows that his work has 
consistently been recognized for its significance, either in major media, by professional organizations 
and publications, and by inclusion in resources that physicians rely on to make clinical decisions 
regarding the treatment of patients with kidney injury or disease. These contributions are discussed 
in detail by experts who explain the influence of the Petitioner's work on both research and clinical 
practice, and who confirm that his collective contributions have resulted in his recognition as "one of 
the top nephrologists practicing today." 
Finally, although many of the Petitioner's scholarly articles, and particularly those in which he applied 
his expertise to COVID-19 research, are quite recent, he offered a Google Scholar report reflecting a 
substantial number of citations to his published work. Further, the record reflects that he continues to 
publish scholarly articles in distinguished professional journals and is consistently invited as a 
presenter at the major conferences in his field of expertise. 
When considered in the aggregate with the evidence discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R.Rep.No.101-723,59(Sept.19, 1990). Weconcludethattherecordsuppmisafinding 
5 
that the Petitioner is among the small percentage at the top of his field of endeavor with sustained 
national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has shown that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21539608 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a doctoral student and teaching assistant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(1XA) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this immigrant visa classification 
through evidence meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or 
showing that he received a major, internationally-recognized award. The Petitioner appealed the 
Director's decision. Upon review, we concluded that although he had met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, he still had not established that he met the initial evidence requirement. The Petitioner now 
submits combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy to the prior decision, and 
a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reconsider are located at8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently a doctoral student and teaching assistant at the University! I I I and has stated that he intends to pursue a teaching career at this or another institution. He holds 
a Master of Science degree in mathematics from and another from the I I 
University ofl I 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3). 
In first addressing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) relating to judging the work of others in 
his field. the Petitioner asserts that we erred in finding that his participation in the I I "does not constitute a formal judging of the work of others." However, 
our appeal decision did not use the term "formal judging" in its analysis under this criterion, and the 
Petitioner appears to have confused our decision with the Director's, which is not at issue on motion. 
The Petitioner also cites to a statement in one of our non-precedent decisions concerning a different 
individual which notes that this criterion "is broad enough to encompass a wide range of activities that 
involve judging the work of others, whether or not such judging entails, or results from, sustained 
acclaim in the field." This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS 
officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03.3( c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and 
policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the 
record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. In addition, the cited 
language from that decision appeared as part of a final merits determination and was meant to highlight 
the difference between evidence which qualifies under this criterion and that which helps to establish a 
petitioner's national or international acclaim. While we agree that a broad range of activities may qualify 
as judging the work of others in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), it remains the Petitioner's 
burden to establish that he participated in a qualifying activity. 
In another statement regarding this criterion, the Petitioner asserts that our previous decision was incorrect 
in stating that the record does not include mention of the evaluation panels which he described as being 
part of thel I project. Our decision stated that the only mention of the evaluatio
1n panels and the 
Petitioner's involvement with them was made by the Petitioner, and that neither the website 
information or the letter from I I mentioned the panels at all, let alone his participation as a 
member. Although the Petitioner asserts that this statement was wrong, he does not point to specific 
evidence in the record where that information may be found. 
2 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) relating to original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner states that due to the nature of his research in the area ofl I I he is unable to submitevidenceofpatents, usage or implementation, but points to two reference 
letters which were submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). The first of these 
is froml la professor atthel University I I He states that while he hasn't interacted directly with the Petitioner, he and his colleagues 
cited to one of the Petitioner's articles published in 2016 and used his results in their own work. I I also briefly describes a 2014 paper that the Petitioner which covered 
the use ofl lmodels in makingl I forecasts at the I I level, noting that the 
Petitioner contributed mathematical models to this work. But he does not indicate that the Petitioner's 
contribution to this paper was an original contribution to the overall field of mathematics, nor does he 
provide any indication of its significance to the field. 
The other reference letter was written by of thel I Institute of physics 
and Technology. He begins by discussing the Petitioner's academic excellence and erformance as a 
teacher, but does not indicate that he made an original contribution in the latter field. 
then describes a lecture given by the Petitioner at a scientific conference in 2008 that conceme I lwhich he indicates "was warmly appreciate by the audience." He goes on name others eminars 
at which the Petitioner spoke, provides a list of mathematics professors that he states have "recognized 
and praised" the Petitioner (some of whom also submitted reference letters), and states that the Petitioner 
has published more than 20 papers, many of which he claims have been highly cited. However, while he 
indicates that many of the Petitioner's presentations and publications were well received, he also does not 
identify an original contribution made to the field by the Petitioner, and his assertions regarding the 
widespread citation of this work is not suppmied in the record. 
The Petitioner also references evidence of his participation in mathematical symposiums and conferences 
as supporting the importance of his research. However, we will not assume that every presentation made 
at a symposium or conference, even a prestigious one, constitutes a contribution of major significance. 
Rather, it is the documented impact such presentations have made which determines their significance to 
the field. "Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly 
impacted the field. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 2013). For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in 
the field. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that his presentations contributed to the field to the extent 
that they were of major significance. 
After review of the Petitioner's brief and the previously submitted evidence he references, we find that 
he has not shown that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that it 
was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time. We will therefore dismiss 
his motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103 .5 ( a )(2). The Petitioner submitted two additional documents in support of his motion, one each 
relating to the evidentiary criteria discussed above. Pertaining to his participation as a judge of the 
3 
work of others, he presents a new letter from Organizer. Much of his letter 
is taken directly from the previously-submitted webpage for the but he does confirm the 
Petitioner's participation as a mentor in the program for 8 quarters spanning three years. The letter 
states that in this role the Petitioner has overseen and guided students through reading projects, and 
provided weekly feedback and assessments. As with the previous evidence, it does not indicate that 
he has participated in judging the students' presentations at the end of the quarter, or that the judging 
of these presentations is part of the role of mentors in the I !program. Accordingly, this new 
evidence does not establish that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As for the criterion relating to original contributions of major significance, the Petitioner asserts that 
his role in a project funded by the U.S. Army is both original and of major significance, and submits 
a document entitled "Report Documentation Page." However, this document neither lists the 
Petitioner as an "author" nor shows how this work is of major significance. The Petitioner has not 
established that the fact that a project to which he has contributed has been funded by the U.S. 
government leads to the conclusion that the research has already been of major significance to his 
field. Again, we look to the effect this work may have had on the work of other researchers in the 
field, and this new evidence does not provide such information. 
Because the new evidence submitted on motion does not establish that he meets these evidentiary 
criteria, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reopen. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21404197 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, al I competitor and coach, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision was erroneous and that he has established eligibility 
for the requested classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is al I competitor and coach who has competed in numerous national and 
international competitions . He intends to enter the United States to work as al I coach. 
Because the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria; namely, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record reflects that the Petitioner received lesser nationally and internationally 
recognized awards for excellence and judged the work of others in his field. Accordingly , we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner met these two criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets five additional criteria, either directly or through 
comparable evidence . After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he has not 
demonstrated that he satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the _______ I I as a second degree black belt. In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 1 
1 See 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix , https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a certificate from the ___________ indicating 
that he earned the rank of second degree black belt. He also submitted a copy of his 
identification card and a copy of !"General System of Graduation," which describes the process 
for obtaining the black belt certificate and degrees. In addition, he submitted screenshots from I lcom and com discussing the nature ofl las well as dictionary excerpts 
defining the words "association" and "organization." 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) after determining that the submitted evidence was 
insufficient to establish that the Petitioner satisfied the membership criterion. Specifically, the 
Director noted that the Petitioner had not shown that he satisfied the plain language of this criterion 
because the submitted evidence did not demonstrate that membership in the is based on being 
judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. In response, the Petitioner submitted an excerpt from the I I about the Petitioner's sensei,I I and argued that the biographical article 
demonstrated that who awarded the Petitioner his second degree black belt, was a national 
expert in the field of 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion, and 
we agree with that determination . The documentation submitted by the Petitioner does not provide 
the bylaws or eligibility requirements for induction into the __ _,IAlthough he presented screenshots 
from I website, ranging on various topics such as tournaments, news, and rankings, these 
screenshots do not show the requirements for the Although he submitted the "General System 
of Graduation," which describes the process of obtaining a black belt, the Petitioner did not offer any 
further information regarding the membership requirements, nor did he reference or cite to 
any bylaws, governing regulations, or any other authoritative requirements for the I I Moreover, 
althou h the record demonstrates that the Petitioner attained a second degree black belt from the I 
the significance of this achievement as it relates to membership with the 
and the relationship, if any, between! land the is unclear. Although the 
materials submitted demonstrate the Petitioner's affiliation with[:==Jthe record lacks evidence 
demonstrating membership requirements for this association to show that it requires outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. For these reasons the 
Petitioner has not shown he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 2 In our evaluation, we will first determine whether his evidence reflects published 
material about him relating to his work in the field, which contains the required title, date, and author. 
(providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that 
requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition 
of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research) . 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
3 
If the record supports those regulatory requirements, we will then decide whether professional or major 
trade publications or other major media published those materials. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. In addition to determining that some material was not primarily about the Petitioner, the 
Director also noted that several articles lacked the name of the publication and the publication date, 
and were not supported by citation statistics or information about the publications. Accordingly, the 
Director requested additional evidence to overcome these evidentiary deficiencies. 
In response, the Petitioner resubmitted most of the initially submitted articles, along with information 
from www.facebook.com about the publications I I and I 
and again asserted the submitted documentation satisfies this criterion. The Director was not 
persuaded and found the submitted evidence insufficient to establish that the Petitioner met the 
requirements of this criterion. Upon review of the record, we concur with the Director's determination. 
For example, although the Petitioner submitted several articles regarding various! I competitions 
and events, not all of the articles are specifically about the Petitioner and his work in the field. 3 
Although these articles mention the Petitioner and other competitors and their placements, the plain 
language of this criterion requires published material to contain a title, date, and an author; to be about 
the Petitioner and his work in the field; and to be printed in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) does not consider articles 
which mention the Petitioner's name in passing to be about him and his work in the field. 
We acknowledge that one article, '----------------------------' discusses the Petitioner in greater depth, but the Petitioner has not shown that this coverage appeared 
in media that qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. As noted by 
the Director, the article appears to be clipped from a newspaper and omits the original publication 
source and date of publication. Although a separately cut date is appended to the article, the name of 
the source material is not provided or pictured. Therefore, while the article reflects published material 
about the Petitioner and contains the required title and author, the date of publication is questionable 
based on the original source modification, and the name of the publication itself is not included. 4 
Therefore, we are precluded from determining whether professional or major trade publications or 
other major media published this article. 5 
Finally, we note that even if the Petitioner had demonstrated published material primarily about him, 
the record does not demonstrate that the publications in which the submitted articles appeared are 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Although the Petitioner provided 
excerpts from the Facebook pages of both I and I I 
describing the nature of their publications, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of 
the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the published material here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 We observe that several other articles submitted by the Petitioner also omit the name of the publication and append a 
publication date that appears to have been cut and pasted from a separate page or source. 
5 The Petitioner's counsel repeatedly asserts that this article was published by lhowever, there is 
no documentary evidence supporting this assertion. Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
4 
Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we did not have to rely on 
a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major 
media). Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit any material establishing the circulation statistics for 
these publications, nor did he provide other circulation statistics in which to compare with these 
publications. 
Despite the deficiencies noted above, we further observe that the documentary evidence reflects 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work as an athlete/competitor. The plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]ublished material about the alien 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the 
field for which classification is sought [emphasis added]." As noted by the Director, the Petitioner 
intends to enter the United States as a coach. Therefore, any published material as a 
competitor is not within the Petitioner's field of endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. I.NS., 237 F. Supp. 
2d 914 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the 
same area of expertise). Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record of proceeding 
reflect, that the Petitioner has had any published material about him as a coach consistent with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Various forms of artistic display may satisfy this criterion's requirements. As a result, we evaluate 
the nature of the display. According to the plain language of this criterion, the exhibition or showcase 
must be artistic in nature. The arts may include visual art, the performing arts, music, graphic art, and 
other examples of the fine arts. And, just as the event must be artistic, the evidence must also 
demonstrate the artistic nature of a petitioner's work displayed at the event. It is not necessary for a 
petitioner to show that their work was specifically highlighted in any promotional materials or credits; 
only that his work was on display, and that both the work and the event were artistic in nature. 
The Petitioner maintains that his participation in the 2013 ______ organized by I 
demonstrates that his work has been displayed as contemplated by this criterion. The Petitioner 
argues thatl I events such as the one he participated in use LED screens, a 32-foot catwalk 
for fighters, and an elevated mat to improve audience experience, and therefore concludes that his 
participation in this event constitutes artistic display. 
In support of his assertion, the Petitioner submitted four photographs of him competing, marked with 
the words on on the bottom right comer. The Petitioner also submitted 
numerous documents pertaining to the general nature ofl I events, indicating that such 
events hostl I competitions on various levels, as well as articles discussing the history of martial 
arts and their perceived connection to performing arts. The Petitioner also provided additional 
materials regarding! I events on appeal. However, the record lacks specific information 
regarding the nature of the 2013 _____ and the manner and extent to which the Petitioner 
participated in this event. The Petitioner submitted evidence that he placed first in thel I 
5 
at this event, suggesting that the 2013 I was an athletic competition. The Petitioner 
has not established that his participation in this event was of an artistic nature, or that the event itself 
constituted an artistic venue. The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's work was displayed 
at "artistic exhibitions or showcases," and therefore the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets 
the plain language of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment ( or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion because he worked as the headl I coach for I I an affiliate of I al I academy and martial arts team. The 
Director found that the Petitioner had not demonstrated he performed a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation, and referenced a letter in the record froml I 
team co-founder I I indicated that as head coach of one of its affiliate 
academies, the Petitioner "produced countless athletic champions, imparting his knowledge on other 
team members." Regarding his contributions as an athlete/competitor,_ I claimed that the 
Petitioner's achievements, earned on I I behalf, "expanded prestige, media attention and 
sponsorship" for the team, which ultimately expanded I reputation. 
The record, however, is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner held any leadership position 
within the organization, or was res onsible for duties that make him a leader of _ Again, 
the Petitioner and assert that his position of head coach for I I greatly 
im acted however, there is no additional evidence outlining the Petitioner's role with 
and his actual duties, and how his coaching of athletes at this affiliate academy impacted 
as a whole, as opposed to I individually. Generally, the leading or the critical 
role must be performed on behalf of the organization as a whole rather than for a smaller segment. 
See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) . 
____ has not stated, nor has he described the Petitioner's duties or his performance in such 
a manner that the Petitioner can be said to have led the organization. The Petitioner's role within the 
organization was as a coach. It is expected that he will perform the routine duties of a coach and that 
his students will learn and some of their performances will improve. However, merely coaching, even 
if the performance of some students is considered noteworthy, does not equate to the Petitioner 
performing in a leading role . 
letter does not describe the duties the Petitioner performed for the organization in his 
role as a coach. The letter falls short of specifying how the Petitioner contributed to the organization 
in a way that is significant to the organization's outcome or what role he played in the organization's 
activities. See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, at 135 (D.D.C. Dec. 16, 2013). Moreover, 
although the Petitioner also submitted testimonial letters from athletes he coached, he does not provide 
6 
detailed and probative information addressing how his role as a I coach for I an 
affiliate academy, has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of I lactivities. 
Additionally, the record does not confirm that the Petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome or standing of the I While most individuals involved 
with an organization can have some impact on the entity, to establish a critical role a etitioner must 
document that their work is crucial to the success of the entity. Although indicates that 
the Petitioner won numerous awards as a competitor forl team, the Petitioner's 
evidence does not demonstrate how his role differentiated him from the numerous team members that 
also competed and won awards on behalf of the team. We accept that performing as part of any team 
necessarily means each individual, to some degree, plays a critical role. The evidentiary criteria listed 
are meant to indicate an individual's extraordinary ability. The interpretation urged by the Petitioner, 
where participation is sufficient to demonstrate a critical role, would not further the purpose of 
determining whether an individual possesses extraordinary ability. For this reason, the Petitioner has 
not satisfied this criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that lorl I are organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 h 3 viii). 
The evidence indicates that the academy serves as a training facility for professional and 
fighters. Online printouts from various websites discuss 
reputation, noting that it is "one ofl I topl I teams" and report on various championships 
won by the team over the years. While the evidence shows that I I is a successful 
organization that serves professional athletes, it is insufficient to demonstrate that the academy has a 
distinguished reputation . 
For example, the record does not establish that the establishment has received media coverage at a 
level that shows its eminence, distinction, or excellence, which might confirm its distinguished 
reputation. 6 Although the Petitioner has offered documentation relating to I athletic 
accomplishments, this evidence is insufficient to confirm that this academy has a distinguished 
reputation . 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicates that comparable evidence has been submitted relating to the 
authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4) allows for the submission of "comparable evidence" if the ten categories of evidence 
"do not readily apply to the [petitioner's] occupation ." 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted a flyer from an unidentified source advertising a I I Seminar with the Petitioner at on July 16, 2016. According to the 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix (noting that Merriam-Webster 's online dictionary defines 
"distinguished" as "marked by eminence , distinction , or excellence or befitting an eminent person."). 
7 
Petitioner, his seminar presentation is equivalent to authorship of scholarly articles, and claims that he 
therefore meets this criterion through comparable evidence. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) is meant to provide an alternate means for those whose 
achievements within their occupation may not be commensurate with the achievements outlined in the 
enumerated criteria. Therefore, if a petitioner is unable to submit evidence that satisfies at least three 
criteria, due to an unusual occupation, he may submit comparable evidence. It is the petitioner's 
burden to explain why the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to his occupation and how the 
evidence submitted is "comparable" to the objective evidence required at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The regulatory language precludes the consideration of comparable evidence in this case, as there is 
no indication that eligibility for visa preference in the petitioner's occupation as al lcoach 
cannot be established by at least three of the ten criteria specified by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). In fact, as indicated in this decision, the Petitioner mentioned evidence at the time of 
the initial petition filing and in his appellate brief that specifically addressed six of the ten criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Where an individual is simply unable to meet or submit sufficient documentary 
evidence of at least three of these criteria, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
does not allow for the submission of comparable evidence. As such, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that he may rely on comparable evidence. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained 
or established how the documentation he has provided is comparable to the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 7 
C. Cited Authorities 
Throughout the record, the Petitioner references several of our non-precedent decisions and asserts that 
we made affirmative determinations therein regarding the extraordinary ability of other individuals based 
upon similar evidence. Here, the Petitioner has not furnished evidence sufficient to establish that the facts 
of the instant petition are analogous to those in the unpublished decisions. The decisions upon which he 
relies were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the decisions although we will not discuss each 
one separately. While we have considered each non-precedent decision referenced by the Petitioner in 
our analysis, we emphasize that we have thoroughly reviewed all of the evidence submitted in support of 
each individual criterion and find it insufficient to establish eligibility for the reasons outlined above. We 
further note that non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the 
individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues 
considered, and applicable law and policy. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
7 Nevertheless, the evidence submitted by the Petitioner is support of this criterion is not comparable. The Petitioner has 
not claimed or demonstrated that there are no scholarly publications relating tol I Moreover, aside from a photocopy 
of a flyer advertising a I seminar hosted by the Petitioner, the record contains no information regarding the nature 
and duration of this seminar or the subject matter presented, such that it could be considered comparable to a scholarly 
article in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
8 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 24, 2023 In Re: 28060386 
Appeal ofTexas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a film director and producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification 
through evidence of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten 
alternative evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b)(l) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a television and film director and producer. She holds a master of science degree in 
cinematography and television production from the .-I------,I University of Culture and Arts L I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one ofthe evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles in her field, and we 
agree. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets five additional evidentiary criteria. 1 After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that she does not meet the initial evidence 
requirement for this classification and is not eligible as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish their receipt a prize or award, and that the 
prize or award was given for excellence in their field. In addition, it must be shown that the prize or 
award is nationally or internationally recognized in their field. 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that she does not meet the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 
I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
So we will not consider whether she meets that criterion in this decision. 
2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to several awards for films or programs. The Director 
I determined that Ishe received a 2007 Teletriumph award in the category 
from the Television Industry Committee (TIC) of Ukrai.._n_e_f_o_r_th_e_t_e_le-v-is_i_on_p_ro_g_r_a_m_.
I Ibut that the evidence does not establish that it is nationally or internationally 
recognized. However, we disagree in both respects. The evidence sufficiently demonstrates that the 
Teletriumph awards are Ukraine's only television awards and are presented jointly by TIC, a 
professional association in the television industry, and the national government body with oversight 
of the television industry. As such, they are nationally recognized in the Petitioner's field. 
However, the evidence does not demonstrate by a preponderance that the Petitioner received the 
referenced 
Teletriumph award. The evidence relating to this award includes a page from TIC's 
website, fhotographs of the award trophy and the Petitioner holding it, and a letter froml II _ a filmmaker from Kazakhstan. The website states that the recipient was '"New Channel," 
and does not mention the Petitioner. And although a caption to the photograph of the Petitioner 
holding the trophy indicates that she received it, this assertion is not supported in the record. While a 
letter from director of the Petitioner's former employer '--------~ 
'-----...----~_in~U~kr_a_in_e-; states that she worked as the director of "the awarding concert-
ceremony._________ _." his statement that she andD received the Teletriumph award for 
this work directly contradicts the evidence from the awarding entity's website. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director did not properly consider the awards received 
by several films in which she states she was involved. These include I IAs noted by the Director, the evidence do._e_s_n_o_t s_,h_o_w-th_a_t-th_e_P-et-it-io_n_e~r 
received an award for her involvement in the making of these movies. While the Petitioner argues 
that directors and producers play an integral part in the success of films, it is the awarding entities who 
decide which individuals or groups to recognize. Further, the section of the Petitioner's response to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE) that she refers to on appeal includes several webpages and 
articles about both of these movies, including listings of the individuals who had important roles in 
their production, but none of this material mentions the Petitioner. 
Regarding two additional awards claimed by the Petitioner, these are evidenced by a certificate and 
badge given to the Petitioner by a committee called "Revolution Guard" for "outstanding contribution 
to the liberation ofUkraine" and a photograph ofa medal or pin from the Professional Football League 
with the notation" l OYears." On appeal, the Petitioner refers only tol Iletter for support 
that the certificate and badge from the "Revolution Guard" committee were given to her for excellence 
in the field offilmmaking, and as with the Teletriumph award, he does not claim to have been involved 
with the awarding entity or the project for which the Petitioner asserts she received this award. As for 
the Professional Football League award, the Petitioner asserts that since she produced work regarding 
or for the Professional Football League, the pin must have been given to her in recognition of that 
work. Beyond a statement from her former employer that she served as a director for an award 
ceremony held by the league, there is no further evidence in the record regarding this medal or pin. In 
addition, we agree with the Director that the record is insufficient to show why the Petitioner received 
either of these awards, and add that it is also insufficient to show that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
For all of the reasons given above, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
3 
Evidence of the alien 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign(ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but also that the contributions have been of major significance 
in the field. For example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner asserts that she has made three original contributions to the field ofmovie and television 
production and direction. The first is a "vanishing effect" she states that she created for a concert 
movie for the band I I in 2008. In his letter, singer and musician I I 
describes a "unique technical solution" employed by the Petitioner in creating this concert movie 
which made the performer disappear and reappear elsewhere on the stage. Whilel ldoes 
not claim to possess technical expertise in lighting, cinematography, production, or direction of 
movies, he states that he has worked with many creative producers and directors over the course of his 
career, and that he had not observed other directors "achieve anything which would be even close to 
what she did." He goes on to state that other bands and directors thereafter used this technical solution, 
but he does not provide any specifics. 
Another letter which addresses this claimed original contribution was written byl I a 
photographer. She writes that this effect was invented by the Petitioner and was "trnly innovative," 
and names two other video directors who subsequently "borrowed" it from the Petitioner for use in 
their own works. Also,I lstates in his letter that the Petitioner was the director for the 
television version ofthe I I show and edited the concert film, but he does not mention the 
Petitioner's use of the effect discussed in the other two letters. 
While this evidence, particularly! I letter, shows by a preponderance that the Petitioner 
worked as a director for thel !concert movie, it does not establish that she invented the 
"vanishing effect" used in the movie as she claims. Notably, the two writers who make this assertion 
were not involved with the concert or its filming in any respect, and thus have no first-hand knowledge 
of the details of its production and direction. More importantly, their claims that this effect was the 
Petitioner's innovation is not supported by documentary evidence, which given the writer's lack of 
first-hand knowledge or technical expertise, and thus the credibility of these letters, is particularly 
needed. Depending on the specificity, detail, and credibility of a letter, we may give the document 
more or less persuasive weight in a proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has 
held that testimony should not be disregarded simply because it is "self-serving." See, e.g., Matter of 
S-A-, 22 I&N Dec. 1328, 1332 (BIA 2000) (citing cases). The Board also held, however: "We not 
only encourage, but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, 
where available." Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater 
need for the petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 
1998). As the record lacks such evidence, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not shown 
that her use of the "vanishing effect" was an original contribution to the field of film production and 
direction, or that it was of major significance. 
4 
Another original contribution claimed by the Petitioner is her book I IThe translated excerpts showing ....th_e_t-it-le-p-ag_e_a_n_d_1 __n-tr_o_d_u-ct-io-n-to_. 
the book are sufficient to establish that the Petitioner authored the book, and that it is a scholarly study 
of Ukrainian films made during the period referenced in the title. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
new evidence consisting of a statement fromI I that this book "is included in the mandatory 
program of students at the faculty of cinema and television from 09.01.2017." Because she was put 
on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence, we will not consider it for the 
first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(ll) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted 
together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 T&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) ( declining to consider 
new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence 
and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). However, even if 
we were to consider this statement, it is not sufficient to show that the book has been widely 
implemented or had remarkable influence in the field of filmmaking. 
The Petitioner also refers to an article from the website of Woman magazine which discusses her book 
and includes a picture of her holding the book. We first note that this article includes neither the date 
on which it was published or posted or the name of the author who wrote it, thus lowering its 
evidentiary value. Further, the submitted content of the article, which indicates that the book is 
intended for professionals in the movie industry and is original since it fills a gap in literature about 
this period of filmmaking in Ukraine, does not suggest that it has already been influential in the field 
offilmmaking. Similarly, a letter froml lwho states that he is a journalist, producer, and 
radio and television host, describes the book in detail and comments upon its originality, but then 
arrives at the conclusion that it is "an original contribution of major significance to the field of 
filmmaking" without support in the record. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does 
not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof, as specifics are an important indication of whether the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Finally, based solely upon a letter from I I the Petitioner asserts that her teaching of a course 
on animation directing at the school is an original contribution of major significance to her field. As 
the record lacks evidence of the originality and significance of this eight-month course, this assertion 
is unfounded. 
Based on the above analysis, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
This criterion requires a Petitioner to establish that their work has been displayed, and that the display 
took place in artistic exhibitions or showcases. In her decision, the Director noted that the evidence 
submitted about the films ~-----------------------~did not 
show that she was listed in the credits for these movies, and thus that the display ofthese works at film 
festivals was not the display of her work. On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges the Director's 
conclusion, but states only that a cinematography professional's work is displayed at film festivals, 
and that the evidence previously submitted showed that works produced by her were displayed at film 
5 
festivals. This evidence includes screen prints from websites including imdb.com and Wikipedia.com, 
some of which list the cast and crew. The Petitioner's name is not listed in this evidence. 
The evidence of record also includes the letter from ....l ____ ___.I which the Petitioner asserts on 
appeal "provides detailed information regarding [the Petitioner's] work as a creative producer and her 
films which were displayed at a number of international movie festivals." As previously stated,DI ldoes not indicate that he was involved with the making of these films, so his accounts ofthe 
Petitioner's activities and roles are not based upon first-hand knowledge or observation of that work 
and are thus oflittle evidentiary value. In addition, despite the assertion that his letter provides detailed 
information regarding her work on these films, it simply lists a job title for each film. Even if the 
materials above showed that the Petitioner was credited for work in these films, the record lacks 
sufficiently detailed evidence showing that it was her work that was displayed at film festivals. 
Accordingly, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they played either a leading or critical 
role for an organization or establishment, or a department or division thereof, and that that 
organization, establishment, department, or division has or had a distinguished reputation. For a 
leading role, a title and appropriate matching duties may help to show that a role is or was leading. In 
the case of a critical role, the evidence should show that the individual contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of an individual's role that makes it critical, but the individual's performance in that role. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices tab, www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Here, the Petitioner asserts that she played a critical role for both I I Regarding her 
role atl !neither of the materials she references demonstrates that her role as the creator and 
instructor of a class on animation directing was critical for the universit . The first, signed bye::]I I confirms that she created and directed the course and tha was leased with her 
performance in this role. The second letter is from director and producer~____ ___. a director 
and producer who states that he is a graduate ofl land opines that the course taught by the 
Petitioner "played a critical role in the curriculum of the University." He also lists several reasons 
why he believes that the Petitioner's role was critical to the university, including that it allowed the 
university to expand its student base. However,~ ~ does not explain the source of this 
information, as he does not claim to be employed~ ....,..._-_-_-_-_-......or have any relationship with it other 
than as a graduate, and he does not claim to have observed the Petitioner's class or its impact on the 
university. While letters from those with personal knowledge of a petitioner's leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment are particularly helpful in demonstrating qualification for this 
criterion, letters from those with no personal knowledge are not. Id. 
._______ __, letter about the Petitioner's role forDstates that she was employed by the 
company as a director and creative producer since 2004. We first note that despite this statement, the 
letter is unclear about the dates of her employment. The letter goes on to state that the Petitioner 
worked on multiple productions for the company between 2005 and 2007, and then goes on to describe 
projects she completed with various other channels and companies between 2005 and 2008, and then 
6 
I between 2012 and 2014. I kioes not indicate whether the Petitioner remained employed 
withc=]while working on there projects, nor does he explain the gap between 2008 and 2012 or if 
or when she ceased working for 
Idescribes several projects on which the Petitioner worked, and states that her role for 
LJwas critical because she led the company's "most complex a[nd] prestigious projects, all ofwhich 
resulted in the highest ratings of our broadcasts. However, he does not provide any ratings data to 
support this assertion, whether for these projects or for the company overall. He also credits the 
Petitioner with directing thel broject, but his claims that this resulted in her and 
Dreceiving the Teletriumph award are not supported in the evidence, as discussed above concerning 
the lesser awards criterion. In addition, he cites the Petitioner's use of an overhead camera on rails as 
innovative and an example of her technical solutions which were "quite ahead of their time," but does 
not refer to evidence supporting this statement or explain how her use of this technique was critical to 
LJbusiness. As such, this letter is insufficient to show that her role was critical toD 
The Petitioner also relies uponl !statements in attempting to establish thatOhas a 
distinguished reputation, but a reputation is a reflection of the views and opinions ofothers in a certain 
field. For this reason,I I assertions alone are insufficient, and they are not supported 
by evidence that others in the filmmaking industry consider the company as marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. Id. Further, while he claims thaO is the largest television and media 
production company in Eastern Europe, this is also not supported with documentary evidence, and the 
size of an organization is not determinative when considering its reputation. Id. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. Although she claims to meet an additional 
evidentiary criterion relating to published material about her and her work, because she has met only 
one of the other criteria she claims, she cannot meet the requisite three criterion needed to satisfy the 
initial evidence requirement for this classification. Accordingly, we need not reach, and therefore 
reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). Although we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, we have 
nevertheless reviewed the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
7 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8707564 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an architect, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a partner and lea.~d:.....a=r-=-ch:...:..:i:..:..:te:...:c..:..t ...:..w:..:..it:::..;h~.__ _______ __. I I and as a director of the ______ ~teaching committee with 
I 1-Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met 
two of the evidentiary criteria relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets two additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he fulfills the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on: 1) a "Silver Award" at the 2002 D 
Architectural Design Awards, 2) the "Professional Architect Award" from the 
~A-r-ch-it-ec-tu_r_e_S-oc-ie~ty of China (ASC) in 2010, and 3) a "Double Gold Award" at the 20151 I I !Architectural Planning and Design Competition from ASC. In order to fulfill this 
criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.1 Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
as any limitations on competitors.2 
Although the Petitioner provided certificates reflecting that he received the awards, either individually 
or specifically mentioned as part of a group, he did not establish any of the awards' national or 
international recognition for excellence in the field. As it relates to the 2002 award, the Petitioner did 
not provide any supporting documentation showing the national or international significance of the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 Id. 
2 
"Silver Award" in the field. Here, the Petitioner's submission of an "Honorary Certificate" evidencing 
his receipt of the award is insufficient to also demonstrate the award's national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field. Moreover, while the Petitioner made various claims at the 
initial filing, in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), and on appeal, he did not 
corroborate his assertions with supporting evidence. 3 
Regarding the 2010 and 2015 ASC awards, the record contains screenshots from ASC's website that 
describe the history, background, and purpose of the society but does not show that either of its 
bestowed awards qualify as nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
Although the screenshots claim that "[i]n order to support and encourage the work and contribution of 
the architectural engineering professionals, ASC awards over [a] dozen prizes including China 
Architectural Design Award andl !Architecture Medal which is the supreme honor in the 
Chinese architectural field," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the field recognizes the ASC 
awards as national or international awards for excellence beyond ASC's own assertions. 
Similarly, the Petitioner submitted a self-promotional article posted on ASC's website reporting on 
the 2015 competition. While the article boasts about the competition, such as "the event has been 
successfully held tori I years," "the contestants are strong," "the scope of the competition 
is wide," "the high level of award-winning projects reflects the highest and latest level of construction, 
planning, environment and technology in China," and "the demonstration effect is strong," the 
Petitioner did not establish that the 2015 award enjoys status as a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in the field. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not provide any 
independent, objective evidence outside of ASC showing the field's recognition of the award. 
On appeal, as it pertains to the 2010 award, the Petitioner submits an article from I I announcing 
ASC's award list for the "Professional Architect Award," claiming that "[t]his award is the highest 
award among Chinese professional architects." However, as mentioned above, ASC asserted that the I !Architecture Medal ... is the supreme honor in the Chinese architectural field." 
Moreover, the article indicated that "[t]his is the first time in 8 years" since ASC presented the award, 
doubting its significance in the field. Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how a single article 
reporting on the award represents a level of media coverage for a nationally or internationally 
recognized award for excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that he fulfills this criterion based on articles published in Designer, China 
Architecture Mold Net, and ArchDaily. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must 
3 For instance, although he asserted that "[t]he~----~ Engineering Survey an~ Design Award is the highest 
national award in China's engineering survey and design industry, includinglArchitectural Design Project, 
excellent engineering construction standard design, and excellent engineering survey," the Petitioner did not supplement 
the record to support his claims. 
3 
demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.4 
Regarding the Designer article, it reflects published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. 
However, the Petitioner did not establish the author of the material. Although he provided a translation 
indicating the .___ _______ __.' and I I' the Petitioner did not 
specifically identify the actual author of the article. 
As it relates to the China Architecture Mold Net and ArchDaily articles, the Petitioner provided 
screenshots of articles posted on mojiatong.com and archdaily.cn. The Petitioner, however, did not 
support the record with evidence of rn1blicatjon in China trchitecture Mold Net and ArchDaily. 
Furthermore, the articles are about thel Renovation. While the mojiatong.com 
article interviewed the Petitioner, the questions are entirely about the renovation project without any 
discussion about the Petitioner. Likewise, the archdaily.cn article is exclusively about the renovation 
project rather than about the Petitioner. In fact, the Petitioner's name is only mentioned once in being 
listed as one of the chief architects on the project. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill 
this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Finally, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that Designer, mojiatong.com, or archdaily.cn represents a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium. Although he contends on appeal that 
the articles appeared in professional publications, the Petitioner did not provide any corroborating 
evidence. 5 In fact, as it relates to this criterion, the Petitioner only submitted the articles and 
translations without documentation relating to the publications or websites. Moreover, the Petitioner 
references his prior arguments he made in response to the Director's RFE; however, his previous 
assertions referenced material not offered into the record, such as "Alexa Web Traffic Report." In the 
case here, the Petitioner's unsubstantiated claims and unsupported references are not sufficient to 
establish the professional or major trade publication or other major medium status. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has designed architectural projects, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10066114 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the field of civil engineering , seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had received a major, internationally recognized award or met at least three 
of the evidentiary requirements listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he meets the requisite three criteria. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research assistant atl O I University, focusing on the development of 
software tools for the simulation and analysis of the effects of earthquakes and tsunamis on structures. 
He received a Ph.D. in civil engineering from the same institution in 2014, and indicates that he intends 
to continue this work in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to his authorship of scholarly articles and his service as a judge of the work of others 
in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criterion concerning 
his scientific contributions of major significance. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we find that while it establishes that the Petitioner meets the requisite three of the evidentiary criteria, 
it does not establish that he has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim or is one of the 
very few at the top of his field. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted two certificates from the journal Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics 
and Engineering which confirm that he conducted a review in October 2016 and was recognized for 
his "outstanding contribution in reviewing" in June 2017. In addition, several emails demonstrate that 
2 
he conducted reviews of articles submitted to other journals as well. The evidence also includes 
evidence that he was recommended for appointment to a doctoral dissertation committee for a graduate 
student au I University, but does not establish that he was approved for and served in this 
capacity. The evidence of his peer review activity for scientific journals establishes that the Petitioner 
meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The record includes evidence re ardin the Petitioner's contributions towards the I~----~ 
r-----1------r---i-----__J framework and software, specifically the addition of 
interaction modules which allow for simulation of tsunami effects on structures, 
~a_s_w_e~-as----rTt ~e creation of an "interpreter" I I for this software for Python, a computer 
programming language. In his decision, the Director noted that the Petitioner had submitted evidence 
of "the number of site visits, posts, and emails directed towards the framework and software ... " but 
found that this evidence had "no probative value" since it did not establish "who is accessing the 
software and for what purpose." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence including email in uiries about thel,___ ___ ~ 
software, programs for conferences and courses focusing on use of,__ __ ~ and statistics showing 
the use ofl lin published research papers. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been put on notice 
of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the 
AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 
764 (BIA 1988); Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). We will therefore not consider 
these new materials, but will consider the similar materials submitted with the petition and the 
Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). 
The Petitioner asserts that the emails, as well as several reference letters and copies of papers published 
by others in the field, establishe that researchers around the world have im lemented his im rovements 
to thel !platform. One of those reference letters was written b rincipal 
research scientist at t '----~~-~~----~~--~---....,......... in IL.1 
I !explains that,___ __ ~is a critical component of the center's core product, the,___ __ ~ 
software, since it provides the capability to perform structural analysis of infrastructure, and that it 
was the Petitioner's development ofl I which allowed I I to be integrated intoD I I A document that appears to be part of a program for the 2018 meeting of the Center for Risk-
Based Community Resilience Planning confirms this integration, stating that I I "is 
available for use by Center and NIST researchers." 
1 All of the reference letters in the record have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
3 
Another reference letter which focuses on the Petitioner's development otl I was submitted 
by of the University I He explains that 
the Petitioner's work in allowing~--~to be used with the Python programming language allows 
it to be used with other computing tools developed in Python, "accelerating scientific advances." I I states that I f allowed him to conduct advanced analysis on roof 
"ponding," and that this work has "helped to guide deliberations" within a subcommittee of the 
American Society of Civil Engineers which is developing revised standards for snow and rain load on 
buildings. 
Additional reference letters indicate that others researchers have also used I I in their own 
research.~-----------~ otl lwrites that 
he has used the software to analyze the behavior of tall buildings in earthquakes, as well as developing 
his own modules which have been incorporated intol I In addition, I I I I of the University! I states that he uses the software in teaching graduate 
level courses, and that one of his graduate students usedl Ito conduct his thesis research. 
He also indicates that he invited the Petitioner to make a presentation to his students at a weekly 
seminar. 
Other reference letters in the record speak to the Petitioner's addition of Dmodels to thel I 
platform. of the Technical Universit I I who states that he 
originally developed the~-----------~ approach for studying□ notes 
that because of the Petitioner's work, "tsunami hazards are now combined with the earthquake hazards 
in a single computational platform, which is a areat advance for civil engineers and researchers ... " In 
addition.I lotl I university, who indicates that he has supervised 
the Petitioner since he began his doctoral studies in 2008, writes that the0modules developed by 
the Petitioner tori I are used in a federally sponsored project to develop design guidelines for 
bridges in five states in the western United States. 
The record also includes several emails from graduate students and other researchers from institutions 
around the world seeking advice on the use otl land other emails and additional evidence 
indicating that other research grou~s have incorporated the software into their existing platforms. 
While we note that the I platform was developed and in use several years prior to the 
Petitioner's contributions to it, the totality of the evidence described above demonstrates that his work 
has led to broader implementation of the platform and software in the field of civil engineering, and 
specifically to simulate earthquake and tsunami loads on structures. Accordingly, we disagree with 
the Director and find that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record includes evidence that the Petitioner authored seven articles which were published in 
scientific journals, and an additional paper which was presented at a scientific conference. We agree 
with the Director's determination that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
4 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requIsIte initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address his qualification under the final merits determination as 
described in Kazarian, but instead refers to a previous district court decision, Buletini v. INS, 860 F. 
Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994). However, we note that in contrast to the broad precedential authority 
of the case law of a United States circuit court, USCIS is generally not bound by the published 
decisions of United States district courts. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The 
reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly 
before the AAO; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. 
Regardless, we find that the Buletini decision does not conflict with but rather supports the Kazarian 
court's characterization of the adjudication process as including a final merits determination.3 
As discussed above regarding the Petitioner's contributions to the field of civil engineering, the 
evidence shows that his work in adding a Python translator and0modules to thel I computer 
software framework has been implemented by individual researchers and engineers as well as research 
groups and institutions. In addressing the final merits determination in his response to the Director's 
RFE, the Petitioner referred to the reference letters that were previously discussed, stating that through 
them "my influence in the field on an international scale is apparent." However, it is not "influence" 
that must be demonstrated in the final merits analysis, but acclaim. Although these letters, together 
with evidence of interest in and adoption of his work, establish the significance of his contribution to 
the field in implementing improvements to the I !software and framework, they were prepared 
for the purposes of the instant petition and do not show that he has been praised for his work beyond 
its scope, or for a sustained period as required. 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 The Buletini court, referencing the 1992 Weinig letter, said: "Once it is established that the alien's evidence is 
sufficient to meet three of the criteria listed in [the regulation], the alien must be deemed to have extraordinary ability 
unless the INS sets forth specific and substantiated reasons for its finding that the alien, despite having satisfied the 
criteria, does not meet the extraordinary ability standard." Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The Buletini court did not 
reject the possibility of a final merits determination. To the contrary, the court implicitly assumed some sort of final 
merits determination. It did not say that an officer was required to find extraordinary ability once he or she found the 
three initial evidentiary criteria satisfied. Rather, it said that, in such a case, the officer must explain his or her reasons if 
he or she ultimately finds extraordinary ability is lacking. Thus, Buletini and Kazarian are not in conflict. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner also refers to the total number of citations to his published work by other 
researchers, and notes that in previous non-precedent decisions we found that dozens of independent 
citations were found to be persuasive in establishing the significance of the contributions made by the 
petitioners in those cases. These decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply 
existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based 
on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. 
We note that both of these decisions precede Kazarian, and therefore did not apply the two step 
analysis from that decision. In addition, the petitioners in those cases performed research in different 
fields, and the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the number of citations deemed sufficient to show 
the major significance of contributions made in those fields is sufficient to show sustained acclaim or 
standing at the top of his field. Although we will consider the total number of citations to the 
Petitioner's work as one factor when determining whether he has received sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the very few at the top of his field, the record does not include 
comparative evidence which demonstrates that the Petitioner's citations place him as one of the small 
percentage at the top of his field. 
The record also includes evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a peer reviewer for several 
scientific journals, as well as information regarding the impact factor of three of these journals. The 
emails include boilerplate language thanking the Petitioner for his time, but do not remark on the 
quality of the review or otherwise praise his work. In addition, while a certificate from Computer 
Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering was given to him for "Outstanding Contributions in 
Reviewing," the record does not include any explanation of the criteria used in awarding this 
certificate. Therefore, this evidence does not demonstrate that either the quality or quantity of the 
Petitioner's peer review activity is indicative of sustained national or international acclaim. 
For all of the reasons stated above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he has sustained 
acclaim in his field at the national or international level, or that he has standing in his field as one of 
the very few at the top. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10158485 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a newspaper , seeks classification of the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary had a major, internationally recognized award, or that he met three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary is employed by the Petitioner as a graphics and multimedia editor, a role in which he 
has participated in the design and development of I I 
projects. He received a master of professional studies degree froml I University in 2016, and 
the Petitioner states that it intends to permanently employ him in his current position. 
A. One Time Achievement 
Given Congress' intent to restrict this category to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time 
achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards qualifying as 
major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 
1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The House Report specifically cited to the 
Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement; other examples which enjoy major, 
international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and an Olympic 
Medal. The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement 
must be a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The selection of Nobel 
Laureates, the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless 
of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large 
cash prize. While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time 
achievement without meeting all of those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress 
that the award must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the field as one of the top 
awards. 
2 
The Petitioner initially presented evidence that prior to the filing of the petition on behalf of the 
Beneficiary, it had been nominated for a 2019 Emmy Award in the category of 
' for its video and accompanyingc=J 
piece titled "~--------------------~' The Petitioner's entry 
for this award shows that the Beneficiary was listed as one of nine producers for this project, along 
with three executive producers. In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner 
submitted evidence that it had received this award on I I 2019. However, the Director 
concluded, without specifically naming this or other awards received by the Petitioner, that since none 
of the awards in the record were in the Beneficiary's name, he had not received a major, internationally 
recognized award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence relating to this award, consisting of a certificate 
and a photo of a statuette, both of which name the Beneficiary and his role as a producer on this project. 
However, the certificate states that the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (NAT AS) 
"honors" the Beneficiary, but names the Petitioner as the recipient of the award. Also, the evidence 
from the NAT AS website and that of the Petitioner states that it was the Petitioner who received the 
award. While the Beneficiary is pictured along with a group accepting this award at the awards 
ceremony, the announcement on the Petitioner's website does not name him or any other individual 
as a recipient. 
In addition, the record does not establish that the.___ ______ __. Emmy is one of that small 
handful of awards which qualify as a major, internationally recognized award. The Petitioner 
submitted evidence about its receipt of the award from its own website and that of the NATAS, as 
well as a link to a YouTube video of the awards ceremony which includes a brief interview of the 
Beneficiary. But the Petitioner has not shown that this evidence reflects the same sort of international 
media attention afforded Olympic medals and Nobel Prizes as stated above, nor is there evidence in 
the record of a large monetary prize or any other indicators of international recognition. 
For all of the reasons stated above, we find that the Beneficiary has not received a major, 
internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met two of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his leading or critical role and a high salary in 
comparison to others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the 
evidentiary criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
published material about him and his work, and his contributions of major significance to the field.1 
1 We note that although the Petitioner also references the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) regarding display of the 
Beneficiary's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases in its appeal brief, it does not offer specific new arguments in 
dispute of the Director's decision. The AAO, therefore, considers this issue to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y 
Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 
(E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to 
the AAO). 
3 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Beneficiary does not meet the initial 
evidence requirement by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In his decision, the Director listed evidence regarding several awards, but found that none of it named 
the Beneficiary as the recipient of an award. On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute that the 
Beneficiary is not named as a recipient of these awards (aside from its assertions related to thel I I I Emmy which are discussed above), but argues that "what is intended by this provision 
is a requirement to produce credible evidence by virtue of the lesser award that this individual is 
extraordinary ... " But the plain language of this criterion calls for documentation of the "alien's 
receipt" of qualifying prizes or awards, not his or her employer's receipt of such prizes or awards, a 
requirement which this assertion does not address. 2 Further, as explained above, the two-part analysis 
introduced in Kazarian requires that the evidence first be counted to determine whether the initial 
evidence requirement of a one-time achievement or at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) has been met. Only if that initial evidence requirement has been met do we 
consider whether the totality of the evidence shows that the individual has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of his or her field. Therefore, at this 
point in our analysis of the evidence, we do not determine whether the evidence establishes that the 
individual has extraordinary ability, but whether it meets the plain language of the criterion to which 
it pertains. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence regarding the Beneficiary's role in these award-winning 
projects, including letters from his superiors indicating that his work was "indispensable" and that the 
projects would not have been published without him. The record also includes two articles written by 
the Beneficiary's supervisor which describe two of the0projects and include brief mentions and 
photographs of the Beneficiary, although it's not apparent where or if these articles were published. 
While this evidence shows that the Beneficiary was an important member of the team which created 
thesec=:};xperiences, the Petitioner does not refer to a provision in the regulation which provides for 
consideration of the contributions of a member of an award-winning team to qualify under this 
criterion. As the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary has received a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized award in his field, we agree with the Director and find that he does not meet 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In its appeal brief, the Petitioner includes a single sentence in reference to this criterion. After 
discussing the Beneficiary's role on the teams which created award-winning □ and Dprojects for 
the Petitioner, the Petitioner states that the same reasoning underlying the assertion discussed above 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f. 
4 
also applies to articles written by others about those projects. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that 
despite those articles not even mentioning the Beneficiary, the fact that he played an important role in 
creating the projects essentially means that the articles are about him. However, while there is no 
question that these articles discuss and praise the work of the Petitioner, and are clearly about the work 
of the teams which created them, the plain language of this criterion requires that published materials 
be about the alien. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). Because these 
published materials do not focus on the Beneficiary to any extent, they do not establish eligibility 
under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that an individual's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. In its appeal 
brief, the Petitioner does not identify specific contributions that the Beneficiary has made to the field 
of creative technology or digital journalism, but refers to the eighteen reference letters which were 
submitted, stating that they show the "cutting-edge work" being done by the Beneficiary. 3 We 
consider several of these letters below. 
I I General Mana er of Studio, writes that he worked 
with the Beneficiary on "the hologram piece" in which the Beneficiary "contributed 
both conceptually and technically." ~---~concludes that this and other projects completed by 
the Beneficiary as a member of the Petitioner's team "are very important examples in our field, 
showing how these new technologies can be applied to high purpose for mainstream purposes." 
Another employee of thel Jstudio is I I, who states that the emerging I I 
technologies "require exceptional individuals like the Beneficiary]," and that his work is important 
to the field of journalism and for companies like.........,_----:-r-....,....,..,~ since "he breaks trail in using these 
emerging technologies." Although these letters indicate that the Beneficiary is contributing to his field 
as a pioneer in implementing these technologies, they do not establish that he has had an impact on 
the work of others in digital journalism. 
I, CEO of I lstates that the Beneficiary "has been a key contributor to some of the 
~m_o_s_t -si-gn-i-fi~cant contributions to the field of I I media." He cites the l . I 
experience" as an example, indicating that the Beneficiary's contributions "made it one of the most 
impactful uses of I I capture tori I in history." However, 
I ldoes not explain why he considers this work to be impactful, or how it has impacted the 
field. 
Another letter was submitted by~I -----~I Design Manager withl I who indicates 
that "one cannot underestimate the reach of the Beneficiar 's contributions." He writes that the 
Petitioner's story, "is regarded as one of the best 
3 All of the letters were reviewed, including those not specifically mention in this decision. 
5 
use [sic] of I ~ in journalism." I I adds that the success of ._I ___ _. 
platforms depends upon the content created for them, and that the Beneficiary's work is therefore 
crucial to "ensure that highest quality of content is created for this medium." But he does not indicate 
that the Beneficiary's work has already directly led to the success of I I platforms, or the 
adoption of this technology by more newspapers or other digital media. 
1--------,...Jlof the.__ ____________ _, describes the Beneficiary's work on the 
.__ __ ___,I project, "an open source platform for shared, interactive computation." He writes that the 
Beneficiary "propelled our project from mere prototype to deployment at scale," and that his work 
"was a key requisite" for releasing the project. 
These reference letters, and the others submitted by the Petitioner, show that the Petitioner has 
contributed to several I projects, with the Petitioner and other entities. They applaud his 
skill and creativity in contributing to the success of these projects, and some indicate that his work has 
allowed the Petitioner to attain a leadership position in this field. Although several media articles 
support the assertion that the Petitioner was one of the first media outlets to use this technology, the 
record does not include evidence showing a resulting wide implementation of techniques or methods 
used by the Beneficiary, or other evidence that his work has influenced others in his field. As such, 
we find that the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that the Beneficiary played a leading or 
critical role for an organization, and that that organization has a distinguished reputation. The 
previously discussed reference letters and other evidence establishes that the Beneficiary played a 
critical role for the team that created several! !projects for the Petitioner, and the awards 
received by the Petitioner for the work of that team demonstrates that it has a distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director and find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director determined that the Beneficiary met this criterion, but did provide the reasoning for this 
determination. On review, the record includes copies of the Beneficiary's 2017 and 2018 Form W-2s, 
showing that earned salaries of $112,336 and $139,194, respectively, in those years. It also includes 
two pages from the website payscale.com which indicate that the average salary for a film/video editor 
inl I New York is $55,857 per year, while those at the 90th percentile earn $90,000 per year. 
While the Beneficiary's current job title closely matches that of the one used in this survey, the 
evidence does not include a description of the duties performed by those in this job. We note that 
while the job opportunities shown in this evidence involve working with video, the descriptions of the 
Beneficiary's duties include creating a design framework and user interface for0projects, writing 
computer code, developing advanced photographic techniques, and coordinating newsroom, product 
and design teams to ensure technology and social media projects are aligned. The Petitioner indicates 
that the position requires "computer graphics and web interface skills, strategic vision, and journalistic 
acumen ... " Salary information for those performing work in a related but distinct occupation with 
6 
different responsibilities is not a proper basis for comparison. Rather, the Petitioner must submit 
documentary evidence of the earnings of those in the Beneficiary's occupation performing similar 
work at the top level of the field. See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. I NS, 
934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). The AAO notes that in Matter of Racine, 1995 
WL 153319 at *1, *4 (N.D. Ill. Feb. 16, 1995), the court stated: 
[T]he plain reading of the statute suggests that the appropriate field of comparison is 
not a comparison of Racine's ability with that of all the hockey players at all levels of 
play; but rather, Racine's ability as a professional hockey player within the NHL. This 
interpretation is consistent with at least one other court in this district, Grimson v. INS, 
No. 93 C 3354, (N.D. Ill. September 9, 1993), and the definition of the term 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), and the discussion set forth in the preamble at 56 Fed. Reg. 60898-99. 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the salaries of film and video editors are a proper basis of 
comparison to determine whether the Beneficiary's salary is high compared to that of others in his 
field. We therefore disagree with the Director and find that the Beneficiary does not meet this 
criterion. 
C. Comparable Evidence 
As noted above, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director should 
have considered the awards it received under this provision, "given the nature of what the beneficiary 
does, and the overwhelming evidence supporting his extraordinary work ... " However, the Petitioner 
did not make such a claim in its initial brief which accompanied the petition or in response to the 
Director's RFE. In addition, the Petitioner does not assert, and has not shown, that the standards do 
not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. Accordingly, we will not consider the awards 
received by the Petitioner to be comparable evidence. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
7 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9777396 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a patent agent, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a patent officer with~-----------~ in I I Massachusetts. Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for journals. In addition, he 
authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three additional criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner argues that his "publishing of numerous, original research contributions in high-impact 
journal supports the 'major significance' of his research findings." Moreover, the Petitioner claims 
that "[p]ublishing even one time in a high-impact journal would show and document such 
significance," and he "has done so every time with all thirteen publications." However, the Petitioner 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
did not demonstrate that publication of articles in highly ranked journals automatically establishes 
original contributions of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or 
impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's influence or 
the impact of research in the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates 
a contribution of major significance in the field. For example, the Petitioner did not explain how an 
article published in a "high-impact" journal that resulted in receiving little no attention or otherwise 
did not influence the field would routinely qualify as being majorly significant in the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner contends that "his publications have garnered special attention or recognition 
from international publishers and periodicals, in ways uncommon and particularly celebratory; this 
due to and highlighting their major significance." Specifically, the Petitioner references his 2016 
paper published in Chemistry-A European Journal that was identified as a I I' by the editors 
of the journal. 2 In addition, the Petitioner indicates that his 2019 ChemMedChem article I I 
the I I journal. Further, the Petitioner points out that Synfacts I 12017 
Chemical Communications and 2018 Nature Chemistry articles.3 Similar to the discussion above, the 
Petitioner did not establish that an article's selection as '--------------------' journal, orl ISynfacts necessarily automatically shows a contribution of major significance in 
the field. While the selection, I I may signify that the editors or publishers' 
opinions regarding the possibility or even actual importance of the research, the act alone does 
demonstrate the major significance of the research without evidence showing the influence in the field. 
Again, for instance, the Petitioner did not explain how an article's~-------~ that 
ultimately did not yield any attention or otherwise did not impact the field would normally qualify as 
being majorly significant in the field. 
In addition, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted citatory evidence from Google Scholar 
reflecting that his 2016 1 I article received 23 citations, 2017 and 2018 Synfacts articles 
received 18 and 40 citations, respectively, and his 2019 cover article did not receive any citations. 
Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest in a petitioner's research 
2 The Petitioner provides a screenshot from onlinelibrary.wiley.com indicating that I lare chosen by the Editors 
[of Chemistry- A European Journal] for their importance in a rapidly evolving field of high current interest." 
3 The Petitioner submits screenshots from thieme.de reflecting: 
In SYN FACTS, current research results in '-----,,----'from the primary literature are screened, 
selected, evaluated, summarized, and enriched with personal comments by experts in their fields on a 
monthly basis. 
SYN FACTS addresses the needs ofl I in academia (including students) and industry by 
helping them to know, learn, and think more about their own field as well as neighboring disciplines. 
SYN FACTS stimulates the reader's research and the development of exciting new ideas. The journal is 
also aiming to support teaching and lecturing activities as well as examination preparation. 
SYNFACTS offers the reader summaries of the most significant current results from the primary 
literature in the following thematic categories .... 
3 
or written work. However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown that the citations to his work are 
commensurate with contributions of major significance. 4 Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the 
significance or relevance of the citations to his articles. For example, he did not demonstrate that these 
citations are unusually high in his field or how they compare to other articles that the field views as 
having been majorly significant. Although his citations indicate the some in the field have referenced 
his work, the Petitioner did not establish that his citation numbers to his work rise to the level of major 
significance consistent with this regulatory criterion.5 
Furthermore, even considering both the publication selections and citation figures, the Petitioner did 
not establish that the articles or research findings reflect majorly significant contributions. In fact, as 
indicated, while ChemMedChem featured his article on the cover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that others have cited to or been influenced by his work, showing that the appearance on a journal 
cover does not automatically establish a contribution of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner also argues that his submission of 11 recommendation letters "were extensive in 
number," and "[t]hey also verified, in [sic] informed, [in] expert-caliber and detailed ways, the 'major 
significance' element." Although the letters recount the Petitioner's research and findings and make 
broad statements regarding their significance in the field, they do contain sufficient information 
detailing how his work has been of major significance. For instance.I I indicated 
that the Petitioner's "contribution to the chemical synthesis ofl I provides researchers in 
the drug discovery field with a versatile chemistry tool to access this privileged class o~ lthat 
are otherwise inaccessible."6 I I for example, did not further elaborate and identify which 
molecules have been accessed and the drugs that were discovered using the Petitioner's research, 
signifying a contribution of major significance. 
Likewise.I I stated that "[t]his study is the first demonstration of remote! I 
I I reactions without the involvement of external oxidants or reductants, and for 
the first time provides both ex erimental and theoretical evidence for the existence of I I 
intermediates in L_ _______ __,---,- ___ __J reactions." While the letter shows 
the originality of the Petitioner's research, did not elaborate and explain how this study has 
impacted the field in a majorly, significant manner. ,___ __ _., for instance, did not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's study has been widely applied throughout the field, nor did he articulate the outcomes 
or results in the field from his study. 
In fact, the letters speculate on the possibility and potential of his research in the field rather than how 
his work has already been of major significance in the field. For ex m I "k I I intermediates 
. . . can serve as valuable tools for medicinal chemistry" · "these new I I 
.......,.,.,~----~-~~ inhibitors show promising ability to~e,___ _____ _.· and 
"t e Pet1t1oner's m mgs are very exciting because these novelL__Jtracers can be used in PET 
4 The Petitioner also did not demonstrate that any of his other articles resulted in original contributions of major significance 
in the field. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
6 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 
imaging of atients with neurological disorders" I I, "[the Petitioner's] work in 
developin method hold potential for tremendrn1s impact on our societ " 
" 1s angina mdings will enable the use at I and,___ _____ __, for 
..... 1--.ab_e.....,li~n-g-o-rg_a_n~ic~molecules"I I, "[the Petitioner] has conducted invaluable research 
that will change the future of the field to the benefit of the people of America anp...1b..e..Jllild" D I I, and "this work will also have lasting impacts on the field of L___J organic 
chemistry and the pharmaceutical industry" I I). (emphasis added). Although 
the letters opine on the possibility of the influence of the Petitioner's research and work at some time 
in the future, they do not demonstrate how his work has already impacted, influenced, or affected the 
field in a majorly significant manner. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner references letters froml II I andl I as examples 
of how "fundamental [his] research and record of discovery have been to their own work." Indeed, 
I !discussed that he "recently highlighted one of [the Petitioner's] papers in a publication by 
my own research group,"I I stated that the Petitioner's "work has greatly impacted my own, 
andl I indicated that he conducted his "own evaluation of the [the Petitioner's] work." While 
the letters reflect that these individuals built upon the Petitioner's work in their own research, they do 
not show the significance of his research in the overall field beyond their own research and written 
findings.7 For example.I !concluded that "[b]uilding on [the Petitioner's] prior work, my 
research arouq and collaborators at developed a highly effective, user-friendlX I Jmethod for th ~--~another important class of pharmaceutical~! ----~J 
which directly correspond to active pharmaceuticals." Although he cites to the Petitioner's paper as 
"an imQortant exception" in the reference section of his Journal of the American Chemical Society 
article, I ldid not elaborate and explain how the Petitioner's paper has affected the field in a 
majorly significant way, or even the level of significance of his own research in the field, beyond 
developing a new method and publishing in a journal. Similarly, while the Petitioner argues that an 
Organic Letters article referred to his research as a "breakthrough," the article does not provide any 
further explanation or show the major significance in the field beyond the article. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his research or work has had on the overall field.8 Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 9 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion.10 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 
(D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her 
impact in the field as a whole). 
8 Although we discussed a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that his original contributions rise to the level of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading.11 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that an alien contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 12 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on his role at ,___ _______ ~---r--
and I , , ,I, and references previously discussed letters from 
I land I I The letters, however, do not reflect that the Petitioner performed in a leading 
role, nor do they show that he performed in a critical role. Moreover, the letters briefly acknowledge 
his role atLJand Dbut do not provide specific, detailed information demonstrating the leading 
or critical nature of his role.13 Instead, the letters discuss the Petitioner's original research and work 
without making any claims of the Petitioner serving in a leadership position or crediting him for being 
responsible for the successes or outcomes of the school or hospital's activities. 
Relating tol l's letter, he indicated that the Petitioner "joined the program as 
a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Division of,___ _______________ ___., and the 
Department o~ I." Here the Petitioner did not demonstrate how serving in the role 
of a postdoctoral fellow in a division oft::::] or department atOshows his leading position to 
the hospital or school, nor did he establish his position in the overall hierarchy of the institutions. 
Furthermore, while I I stated that he "met with [the Petitioner] in collaborative research 
meetings, heard [his] research presentations, and watched with approval and admiration as he has 
worked closely with my colleague! I in the positron emission tomography (PET) 
core facility atl I to make groundbreaking advancements in PETI t· he did not 
articulate hol perfrring rei5earch within a division of department resulted in critical or essential 
outcomes for or 
Similarly.I !stated that he "was the direct su
1pervis°r for [the Petitioner] during his 2-year 
postdoctoral fellowship in [his] program at I I and ." Further, he indicated that "[i]n [his] 
laboratory, [the Petitioner] produced 2 more first-author publications in Chemical Communications on 
new applications withl I" and [o]ur laboratory had no prior expertise with 
this sub-molecular unit, so [the Petitioner] paved the way for our team to continue productive work in 
this area." Again.I I did not claim that the Petitioner's position as a postdoctoral fellow 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
12 Id. 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
6 
constituted a leading role forl I or I I Moreover, although I !credited the Petitioner 
for paving the way in his laboratory, he did not establish how such work in a laboratory translated into 
a critical role for the school or hos ital. Likewise, while the Petitioner authored articles regarding his 
research in the laborator did not explain how such authorship, publication, or research 
was critical toD or._______. s activities. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on his salary withOas a patent agent. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that his salary should be compared to the salaries of chemists since 
his specialization as a patent agent is in chemistry. Furthermore, the Petitioner provides screenshots 
from flcdatacenter.com and contends that when entering "patent" in the Foreign Labor Certificate Data 
Center Online Wage Library, several occupations match the search, including microsystem engineers, 
mechanical drafters, chemists, lawyers, and legal support workers. In addition, the Petitioner provides 
a screenshot from I advertising for an "Intellectual Property- Patent Agent or Junior Patent 
Associate (Chemistry)" that requires "one to three years of experience and a strong technical 
background in organic chemistry." He also offers the requirements to practice matters before the 
United States Patent and Trademark Office, including a bachelor's degree in various subjects, such as 
biochemistry, general chemistry, and organic chemistry. 
In order to meet this criterion, an alien must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field.14 In the case here, the Petitioner is employed 
as a chemistry patent agent; and therefore, he must establish that he commands a high salary in relation 
to other chemistry patent agents. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a 
professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). Although he previously submitted salary information relating to chemists, 
the Petitioner has not shown he commands a high salary in relation to other chemistry patent agents. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that he fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
7 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, and published his work, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10064636 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the requested classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that his field of expertise is engineering innovations and business development 
of industrial and defense equipment through international sales and marketing. He indicates that he 
intends to work in the same field in the United States, and possibly obtain contracts to manufacture 
and sell equipment to the United States Army. The record shows that he has held sales and executive 
positions with several companies over the past 40 years. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically 
claim to have met any of the criteria, but challenges the Director's analysis of evidence submitted in 
support of several criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner 
does not meet the initial evidence requirement through satisfaction of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted a document titled "Certificate Accreditation of Engineering Excellence," 
which states that it was issued by "Government of Pakistan Ministr of Defe ence sic Production, 
Directorate General Munitions Production" to ~----------------~ The certificate states that the company received the certificate "in recognition of their ability and 
experience and potential to handle state of the art projects ... " and indicates that it was issued as an 
2 
annex to a letter from the same agency. That letter, which was added to the record with the Petitioner's 
~nse to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), is addressed to the Petitioner as thel I 
L__J and states that the certificate "is not valid for any matter pertaining to Ministry of Defence 
Production/Directorate General Munitions Production." 
The Director found that this evidence did not meet this criterion for two reasons. First, he noted that 
the certificate was not issued to the Petitioner, but tq I The plain language of this criterion states 
that documentation of the alien's receipt of prizes or awards must be submitted, not those received by 
his employer.1 The Petitioner does not dispute this issue on appeal. 
Second, the Director noted that the record does not include evidence showing that this certificate is a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. The Petitioner asserted in responding to the 
Director's RFE that it "was first and is only to this date issued due to indigenously and intellectually 
non copy basis innovative design based defense equipment development of national and international 
significance." However, the record does not include evidence to support this assertion, or as the 
Director noted, any objective evidence concerning the criteria used by the Pakistan Ministry of 
Defense in issuing the certificate, or its recognition within the field of business. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that because the certificate was issued by the Pakistan Ministry of 
Defence Production "for work done of international significance," it should be considered nationally 
or internationally recognized. However, the fact that it was issued by an agency of the national 
government does not prove that the certificate is nationally recognized. The certificate was attached 
to a letter from the agency to the Petitioner's business, not publicly awarded or reported on, and the 
record does not show that any recognition went beyond those two parties, either to the national 
government as a whole or the broader defense industry in Pakistan or abroad. The Petitioner argues 
that an award is "given for doing something well," but that is insufficient to establish that such an 
award was given for excellence and recognized at the national or international level. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As indicated by the Director in his decision, a petitioner must establish several elements in order to 
meet the plain language of this criterion. Material must be published, be about the petitioner, relate to 
their work, appear in one of the specified types of media, and include the listed information. In this 
case, the Petitioner relies on an advertisement which appeared in the I , 11999 issue of 
Jane's Defence Weekly. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in reviewing the 
article which appears on the same page above this advertisement, despite his clarification presented in 
responding to the RFE. While we agree that the Director analyzed the incorrect material, on review 
we do not find that the advertisement qualifies under this criterion. We acknowledge that the material 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f. 
3 
was published, and take administrative notice that Jane's Defence Weekly is a major trade publication 
in the defense industry. However, the Petitioner is not mentioned in the caption below the photograph 
depicting his company's product, and the caption focuses only on the product. 2 This material is 
therefore not about him. 
In addition, the Petitioner states that he took the photograph of his company's product and wrote the 
text of the caption, which is clearly written as an advertisement for the product, including c=J·s 
contact information, pricing for the product and a notice of dealership opportunities in the United 
States and United Kingdom. This criterion is not intended to consider either autobiographical material 
or advertisements, but published material written by others about an individual and their work. We 
note that a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) is intended for the consideration of scholarly 
articles authored by a petitioner. Further, the evidence does not indicate the author of this material as 
required. 
For all of the reasons given above, we agree with the Director and find that the Petitioner does not 
meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Although the Petitioner does not specifically address this criterion on appeal, he asserts that the 
Director did not consider the content of job performance certificates he submitted together with the 
explanations of this evidence he provided in res onse to the RFE. In that res~onse, he focused on two 
documents: an agreement between,__.....--___ .....,andl 3 which names the latter 
as the exclusive agent to sell certain,__ __ ~ products in Pakistan, and a letter from I I I I to the Petitioner as Chairman and CEO of a company callerll I 
Regarding the first document, the Petitioner indicated that in carrying out this agreement, he 
"principally was judging the work of others (competitors) individually." However, he does not refer 
to any particular provision in the agreement which supports this assertion, nor does the record include 
evidence of specific instances in which the Petitioner participated as a judge of the work of individuals 
or groups in the field of business, or the specific field of international sales and marketing. As for the 
evidence relating to his position with I I he indicated that "it was a routine matter to judge the 
work of others: people performing given most demanding jobs of reverse and innovative engineering." 
Again, the Petitioner did not provide documentary evidence to demonstrate specific instances of his 
participation as a judge of the work of others. Further, based only upon his statement that he judged 
the work of those performing "reverse and innovative engineering," he has not shown that he was 
judging the work of other sales and marketing executives. Accordingly, this evidence is insufficient 
to establish that he meets this criterion. 
2 The copy of the relevant page initially submitted by the Petitioner did not include the full text of the caption, but we note 
that he has submitted a complete copy of the magazine in which it appeared on appeal. 
3 The name of the agent is given as l I in this agreement, but the Petitioner indicates that this was later 
changed toc=J This name change is confirmed in the record by the award decision granted by the ICC International 
Court of Arbitration. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
"Contributions of major significance" connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted 
the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
As with the above criterion, the Petitioner does not specifically address the issues raised regarding this 
criterion in the Director's decision, but generally refers to evidence such as the job performance 
certificates. We note that in responding to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner identified specific 
evidence which he submitted in support of this criterion. The first of these was a document titled 
"Certificate of Business Relationship and Performance" which was attached to the letter from I 
discussed above. The letter states that the certificate is provided at the 
~r-eq_u_e-st_o_f_t-he-Pe-t-it-io-n-er-·-·to~fulfill your needs." According to the certificate.I l"is one of our 
few top firms contributing in country's indigenous defense needs," and in the 32 years prior to the date 
of the certificate "have developed above 350 units of parts, and assemblies in electrical and mechanical 
disciplines." It goes on to state that the company has "adequate machine shop facilities ... " and 35 
employees. However, the Petitioner does not articulate, either in the RFE response or on appeal, what 
impact he has had on the field of business by leading a company which has supplied parts and 
equipment to Pakistan's military. 
The Petitioner also refers to the agency agreement withl I and stated in his RFE response 
that the country had previously not sold products in Pakistan. He repeats this reference on appeal, and 
also submits a copy of his lawsuit against the company in the Islamabad High Court seeking damages 
of€ 38 million. But the brief does not explain how either the Petitioner's sole agency contract, or the 
litigation resulting from that contract, are original contributions to the field of business or international 
sales and marketing, or that they have influenced the field in some way. Although he mentions several 
times that I had never sold equipment in Pakistan prior to this agreement, he does not 
suggest or show that any impact of the agreement went beyond the two parties involved to the broader 
field. We therefore find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have authored an article that is 
scholarly in nature, and that the article has been published in one of the qualifying types of media. As 
defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or 
philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with 
a college, university, or research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a 
bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
expressed in the article. 
5 
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. ("Learned" is 
defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship"). Learned persons include 
all persons having profound knowledge of a field.4 
The Petitioner focuses on the previously discussed advertisement in Jane's Defence Weekly in support 
of his claim to this criterion as well. As noted in our previous discussion, although the Petitioner 
claims to have taken the photograph in the advertisement and written the accompanying text, the 
material does not include the author's name. In addition, the text of this advertisement does not 
indicate that it was written for learned persons in the field of business, or for those having profound 
knowledge in international sales and marketing. Rather, it briefly and plainly describes the features 
of0's product in terms that do not require profound business knowledge to comprehend. Because 
the Petitioner has not established that he authored this advertisement, or that it is scholarly in nature, 
we find that he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they performed in either a 
leading or critical capacity, and that the organization or establishment for which they performed this 
role have a distinguished reputation. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the alien is (or 
was) a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is (or was), in 
fact, leading. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the alien has contributed in a way that 
is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A 
supporting role may be considered "critical" if the alien's performance in the role is (or was) important 
in that way. It is not the title of the alien's role, but rather the alien's performance in the role that 
determines whether the role is (or was) critical.5 
The Director found in his decision that the evidence of the Petitioner's work for four different 
companies did not establish that the role he played was either leading or critical. On appeal, the 
Petitioner addresses this issue regarding his role as a sole agent for I I in Pakistan, noting that 
he served in this role for seven years and that this resulted in pending litigation in which he seeks€ 38 
million. Although the previously mentioned award decision issued by an arbitration court suggests 
that this arrangement was beneficial for both parties, the evidence does not indicate that the petitioner's 
role in the sale of I I products was important to the overall success of the company. Further, 
the Petitioner has not explained how the evidence of his lawsuit againstl ts successor 
demonstrates that he played a leading or critical role for the company. 
Regarding his roles for other companies which the Petitioner asserts was critical we a ree with the 
Director that the evidence does not support this assertion. A certificate fromL..._ __ .....---------, 
states that he worked as a sales executive with one of the company's authorized dealers, I I inl I Saudi Arabia. The certificate indicates that he sold many trucks, ,~,d-em-on-s-tr-at-e~d 
above average selling-skills," and had good moral character. It does not demonstrate that his role as 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. page 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f. 
5 Id. 
6 
a sales executive was critical to the large, multinational company whose equipment he sold, or to his 
actual employer,! I 
Evidence of the Petitioner's role for another organization consists of a letter written to him as a 
representative of I I by the Vice President Sales 'f-L-'--------------
b ~. and another letter from a branch manager a 
The letter from I ~ invites the Petitioner to~p-ar-ti-c-ip-a-te-in_u_p_c_o_m_in-g-tr-ai-n-in_g_, -a~nd 
thanks him for "support of our product line." The second letter confirms that the Petitioner was 
employed as a crane specialist b~ ~ for at least two years, and that he was "very successful 
in promoting Our company and obtaining orders." Although this letter indicates that he was a 
successful salesperson, which is confirmed by the letter from I I it is not sufficient to show 
that the Petitioner played a leading role for either company. or that his part in the sales of equipment 
was critical to the overall success ofl I orl I 
We note that the Petitioner argued in his RFE response that "sales people with variety of titles always 
have leading roles in commercial organizations since if there are no sales people there are no sales ... " 
However, this argument does not address the requirements of this criterion, which focus on the 
Petitioner's individual roles, not those of salespeople in general. Further, the evidence does not 
indicate that he served as a leader for any of these companies, or that the volume of sales for which he 
was responsible was of such significant importance that it was critical to the success of the overall 
organization. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director's finding regarding the absence of evidence of 
the distinguished reputation of these companies was based upon the Director's failure to "ascertain 
[this information] through presented weblinks." This refers to the invitation in his RFE response to 
search the terms I I and I I (the websites of the successors to I I I I and I I respectively) through the Google search engine. However, it is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The Petitioner 
did not submit specific evidence in support of the distinguished reputation of any of the organizations 
for which he claims to have played a leading or critical role. 
For all of the reasons given above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the criteria relating to lesser awards, 
published material about him, participation as a judge of the work of others, contributions of major 
significance, authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or critical role. While he also claims 
eligibility for two additional criteria under 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (ix), we need not reach 
these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of meeting 
at least three of the ten criteria, we reserve these issues. 6 We therefore need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7864739 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have performed as an actor in movies and television in Russia. Because the 
Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets five criteria. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor.1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.2 
The Petitioner did not initially indicate eligibility for this criterion. However, in response to the 
Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner asserted that "many projects that [he] played 
major roles in were awarded prestigious nationally recognized awards" and listed awards received by 
a television show, movie, and sitcom. Moreover, the Petitioner claimed that he garnered two awards 
for his acting achievements: "Diploma from the Russian theatre festival named after I I I I 2011" and "Diploma o~ I theatre festival named after 
2010." ~-----~ 
On appeal, the Petitioner makes the identical assertions that he made in response to the RFE without 
identifying specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal, or even 
referencing the Director's decision on this issue. Furthermore, while he states that "[b]ased on the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 Id. 
2 
evidence submitted, [he] has satisfied the requirements of 8 CFR § 204.5(h)(3)(i)," the Petitioner does 
not identify the evidence. 
Moreover, the record does not contain documentation supporting the Petitioner's claims of any of the 
television shows, movies, and sitcoms receiving any prizes or awards, let alone nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. Regardless, even if these shows and 
movies garnered the awards, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires the "alien's receipt" 
rather than a show, movie, or sitcom's receipt.3 In addition, the record does not reflect evidence to 
corroborate his assertions regarding his receipt of diplomas from the theatre festivals. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not submit documentation, nor did he demonstrate, the national or international 
recognition of the diplomas as prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material.4 Again, the Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility for this criterion and makes the 
same arguments on appeal that he claimed in response to the Director's RFE, without identifying 
specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal, or even referencing 
the Director's decision on this issue. Furthermore, the Petitioner again indicates "[b]ased on the 
evidence submitted," but does not identify the evidence. 
Nevertheless, the record contains snapshots of website pages claiming to be from kinopoisk.ru, kino­
teatr.ru, ivi.tv, ruskino.ru, lifeactor.ru, imdb.com, vashdosug.ru, kinomania.ru, and etvnet.com that 
show various biography data, such as name, date of birth, and film credits. The snapshots, however, 
do discuss the Petitioner regarding his work. As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the evidence 
reflects published material about him relating to his work consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not include the required title, date, and author of the material. 
Furthermore, although he attached "Attendance statistics" to each snapshot, the Petitioner did not 
identify the source of the claimed website views and visitors, nor did he demonstrate the significance 
of the figures, signifying professional or major trade publications or other major media.5 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (indicating that the description of this type of evidence in 
the regulation provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires an alien to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in 
the same or an allied field of specialization.6 Once again, the Petitioner did not initially claim 
eligibility for this criterion and makes the same arguments on appeal that he claimed in response to 
the Director's RFE, without identifying specifically any erroneously conclusion of law or statement 
of fact for the appeal, or even referencing the Director's decision on this issue. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner again indicates "[b]ased on the evidence submitted," but does not identify the evidence. 
Nonetheless, the record reflects a letter from I I general producer, who indicated that the 
Petitioner worked as "casting director" and "conducted castings and was a member of jury committee 
of creative group and evaluated actor skills of potential candidates for participation projects." The 
letter, however, makes broad statements without providing probative, detailed, and specific 
information, such as identifying the actor's names, project titles, and dates. Without further 
information or corroborating documentation, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the letter is 
sufficient to establish that he judged the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
As such, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy any of the criteria regarding to awards, published material, 
and judging. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to original 
contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi ii), we need not reach these additional grounds. 7 As the Petitioner cannot fulfi 11 the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 The Petitioner's claims on appeal mirror his same claims he made in response to the Director's RFE and do not identify 
specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal, or even reference the Director's decision 
for these criteria. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
4 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although he participated in acting projects, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing 
that the Petitioner is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability.9 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 The Director indicated in his decision that the RFE informed the Petitioner that he did not demonstrate that he would 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. Although he referenced the law and discussed the legislative history, 
the Director did not make a final determination in his decision, nor did he explain why the Petitioner did not establish 
eligibility for this requirement. Notwithstanding, as the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we need not consider whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act, and we reserve this issue. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8895180 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a makeup artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized award or met the 
requirements of at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director 
then affirmed this decision on motion, finding that the Petitioner met only two of the evidentiary 
criteria. On appeal, we agreed with the Director's finding that the Petitioner had served as a judge of 
the work of others in her field per the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . However, we disagreed 
that the Petitioner had established that published material about her and her work had appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, and withdrew the Director's positive 
finding regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We also found that the evidence 
established that the Petitioner met a second criterion by submitting evidence of the display of her work 
at artistic exhibitions per 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner now submits a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, together with new evidence, 
and asserts that she meets five criteria in addition to the two we found that she met in our previous 
decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for 
the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Here, the Petitioner asserts that we misapplied the 
preponderance of the evidence standard, and that the previously submitted evidence established that 
she meets five additional criteria. We will discuss her assertions regarding each below.1 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
,............ ..................... ..........,L..L.l,L! ........ .......,,.,........,,<.UJ....JU!..><."""""'-JL>J.J..l,<.JI.JU.~ed that the Petitioner had received three certificates from the 
'-------..----------.....-.==::::z!L' .:..:.in:..::::c.:..::lu:..:::::d.:..:.in:...:1...,a "Prestige Diploma" at thel !Europe Cup in 
2015, a "Diplome D'Honneur" at in 2010, and a "Gold Medal" in "Ladies Juniors I I' at~----~ in 2008. But we noted that the I Competition 
Guidebook for 2018 indicates that all competitors are awarded the "Prestige Diploma," and that there 
was no information regarding the "Diplome D'Honneur" certificate in this evidence or elsewhere in 
the record. Thus the record did not establish that they were given to the Petitioner for "excellence in 
the field of endeavor," as a certificate for participation in a competition does not demonstrate that she 
excelled or stood out in any way amongst the competitors. Similarly, we noted that the Petitioner's 
"Gold Medal" certificate was issued in the junior ladies division, and that the evidence did not show 
that as such it was awarded for excellence amongst all of the competitors at I 12008. The 
Petitioner does not address the requirement for "excellence in the field of endeavor" in her motion 
brief, and thus has not established that our decision was incorrect based on the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 
However, even if the Petitioner had shown that thel !certificates were awarded for excellence as 
a makeup artist, we also found in our previous decision that the evidence did not establish that they 
are nationally or internationally recognized awards. The Petitioner does address this element of the 
criterion on 1otionl stating that our finding that the evidence, including reference letters and published 
media about s competitions, relates to~·s competitions rather than the bestowed awards, 
"is simply incorrect." She references evidence frame=] itself, including a letter from the president 
of the organization, as well as articles published on independent websites and other media. 
A review of the three articles which the Petitioner focuses on reveals that although there is discussion 
of the granting of awards at I I competitions, all focus on the hair styling aspect of the 
competition and awards, and not the junior I I competition for which the Petitioner was 
awarded. The article posted on the website of Modern Salon onl I 2014 is a brief overview of 
1 The Petitioner does not contest the findings in our previous decision regarding the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). We will therefore consider this issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 l&N Dec. 
762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
the I I competition that year in I I Germany, and notes that it "brings together 
thousands of hairdressers from across the globe to compete for the coveted trophy (and the publicity, 
exposure and bragging rights that come along with it!)." It goes on to note thatl I is one 
of the 38 categories in which competitors participate, but does not provide further discussion of it, 
instead focusing on an interview of a hairdresser on the team representing the United States. Another 
article, posted on the website rlobalne,s.ca, lis an interview of two stylists from I I Canada 
preparing tori . 2017 in The article notes that it is "the world's biggest hair 
competition," and one of the stylists explains that it "is like the I L" By far the longest 
article was posted on the website racked.com, and goes into great detail regarding the history and 
current status of hair styling competitions, as well as the 2016 I !competition inl I South 
Korea. But it doesn't mention either th~ I competition or the junior competitions at all. 
Upon review, although we agree that these materials describe both the I I competitions and the 
hair styling awards granted as being recognized internationally, none of them similarly describe the 
junior division award inl I received by the Petitioner. 
In addition, the letter from I I President of I I includes much o~ the same 
information presented in the articles analyzed above regarding the prestige of the I 
competition, and confirms the Petitioner's receipt of the three certificates in the record. However, this 
evidence does not establish that the awards received by the Petitioner are recognized outside of the 
issuing organization on a national or international basis. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision 
regarding this criterion was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts in her brief that the evidence regarding her membership in the Union of 
Hairdressers and Cosmetologists of Russia (UHCR) establishes that she meets this criterion, and that 
in our previous decision we "enforce[ed] a heavier standard beyond what is required" by regulation or 
in agency guidance. Although she indicates a reference to the organization's bylaws, the Petitioner 
quotes a different set of membership criteria from its website, which states that a candidate for 
membership shall have: 
I A relevant professional education; 
I 3+ years of experience of occupational work; 
I Awards, diplomas, medals for participation in various professional events. 
We first note that the first two requirements are of the type which is noted in the guidance in the 
Adjudicator's Field Manual, referenced by the Petitioner, as not leading to a conclusion that an 
3 
assocIatIon requires outstanding achievements of its members.2 The third requirement partially 
suggests that "awards" or "medals" are also required, but also includes "diplomas," which are typically 
earned upon completion of education or training. In addition, "participation in various professional 
events" does not indicate that the preceding types of recognition must have been received for achieving 
victory in a competition or other venue in which the candidate would have demonstrated that they 
stand out from others in the field of cosmetology. Rather, a "professional event" could also include a 
seminar or conference in which the candidate participated and received a diploma documenting that 
participation. Therefore, this evidence does not establish that UHCR requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. 
As for the UHCR bylaws, a review of the translations provided shows that they are not complete 
translations of the Russian language document. We first note that despite the Russian document 
including 22 articles, only a portion of Article 7, regarding admission of members, was provided in 
the English translation. More importantly, the translated portion of Article 7 is also not complete, as 
can be clearly seen by comparing the length of the sentences in the translation against the original 
document, and by the fact that in the translation, the second bullet under Article 7.2 is an incomplete 
sentence which abruptly ends with the word "the." Any document in a foreign language must be 
accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must 
certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not 
submit a complete English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine 
whether the translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
The Petitioner also asserts that a reference letter regarding UHCR membership requirements did not 
contain inconsistencies with the website information or bylaws, but was submitted to provide further 
detail. Upon review, we agree that the use of the term "major" in the letter froml I I I to describe contests is not necessarily inconsistent with the terminology used in the bylaws. 
However, we note that review of this letter reveals inconsistencies in its translation which lead to 
questions regarding which organization! I describes in her lettrr Notably, while the 
heading and first paragraph of the English translation describe her position as lot UHCR, the 
text in the Russian language document is the same as that in the seal at the bottom of the letter, which 
is translated as "Union of Enterprises and Specialists in Beauty Industry of the North-West." It is 
therefore unclear whether the membership requirements described, and the brief biographies of 
members of the admissions committee, are those of UHCR or this other association, for which the 
Petitioner has not established her membership. The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the 
record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 {BIA 1988). Absent such a resolution, the evidence does not support the Petitioner's 
claim that her membership in UHCR qualifies under this criterion. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that the finding in our previous 
decision regarding this criterion was incorrect based upon an incorrect application of law or policy, or 
was incorrect based upon the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
4 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In our previous decision, we disagreed with the Director's finding that the Petitioner met this criterion, 
and vacated that finding. On motion, the Petitioner focuses on two of the articles that we found to not 
be about her and her work, published on the websites cosmo.ru and graziamagazine.ru, noting that 
both contain identical, and very brief, summaries of her career: "international makeup artist, coach 
and author of makeup images fa,___ ____ ~ ___ __, I I and I , I I 1-" She asserts that these words are sufficient to establish that the pub I ished materials 
are about her, noting that "Nowhere does the regulatory language state what percentage of the article's 
written content should discuss the Petitioner and her work." However, these very brief summaries of 
the Petitioner's career, contained within articles of several pages in which she provides her opinion 
about beauty products and social media personalities, are not sufficient to demonstrate that the articles 
are about her. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7, (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 
2008) (finding that articles "focusing on the character or the show, rather than the performer himself," 
are not about the performer); see also Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012) 
(finding that brief mentions of an athlete within articles about a team are not about the athlete). We 
further note that although the Petitioner asserts that both of these articles indicate that they are authored 
by "online staff," this language does not appear in the translation of either article. 
The Petitioner further contends on motion that the article on the website of Grazia Magazine "arguably 
constitutes being a work product itself of [the Petitioner]," and is thus about her and her work. 
However, we note that a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) is intended for the 
consideration of published material authored by a petitioner. This criterion considers published 
materials written by others about a petitioner and his or her work. 
For all of the reasons stated above, the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision 
regarding this criterion was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner acknowledges in her brief that she "decided not to pursue" her claim to meeting this 
criterion after receiving the Director's request for evidence, but now asks that this issue be 
reconsidered on motion. We note that she did not raise this claim in either her motion to reopen before 
the Director or on appeal. In general, we will not address issues that were not raised with specificity 
on appeal. We will therefore consider this issue to have been abandoned. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S­
, 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In our previous decision, we acknowledged the evidence of the Petitioner's earnings in the form of 
contracts for her services. Those contracts included one for 155,000 rubles in 2012, and three others 
5 
for which she was paid 200,000 rubles for projects in 2013, 2014 and 2015. We also acknowledged a 
letter from I I general director ofl I who stated that the average monthly salary 
of makeup artists in Russia is 30,000 rubles, as well as evidence from the website trud.com showing 
that the average monthly salary is 40,000 rubles. However, we found that this data was not sufficient 
to establish that the Petitioner's salary is high relative to other makeup artists, since it did not provide 
a proper basis for comparison to the evidence of the Petitioner's earnings on specific projects. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that since the submitted contracts show the amount she was paid for 
a single day of work, the fact that the amounts she earned were several times higher than the monthly 
average establishes that her salary is high compared to other makeup artists. However, we note that 
the evidence on which the Petitioner relies to establish the amount of her earnings consists of four 
contracts in four different years, and that those earnings considered on a monthly basis are actually 
lower than the monthly average stated on trud.com. In addition, as noted in the Director's initial 
decision, letters in the record regarding her additional earnings are not supported by documentary 
evidence, such as contracts or tax or payroll documents, and therefore are not sufficient to show her 
salary beyond that reflected in these four contracts. Therefore, the evidence does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's average monthly salary in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 was high relative to others in 
her field. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
As previously noted, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. On motion, 
the Petitioner presents new evidence regarding two criteria: those relating to her receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, and to published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. We will therefore consider only those 
criteria in our motion to reopen analysis. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As additional evidence concerning the recognition of the awards received by the Petitioner, she 
submits pages from~·s website, as well as additional media articles about I I The 
three website pages submitted include information about the number of worldwide members of the 
organization and its existence since 1946, and note that the organization "offers a Global platform to 
all competitors of the beauty sector of Hair, Aesthetics and Nail to become World champions in their 
own field ... " In addition, they refer to the I I Global Awards," which include Lifetime 
Achievement, Hall of Fame, and Ambassador Award among others. While this information confirms 
thatl lholds international competitions for hairstylists, makeup artists and aestheticians, it does 
not demonstrate that the awards earned by the Petitioner are nationally or internationally recognized. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted two additional media articles, one published on the website 
www.probeauty.org and the other on www.esteticamagazine.com. Both are brief notices about the I I competitions in 2016 and 2019, respectively. As with many of the previously 
submitted articles, the article on the www.probeauty.org website refers to the competition as being 
among hairdressers, and does not mention the makeup rmperions in which the Petitioner 
participated. The second article repeats the text from the website noted above, and also 
6 
promotes the event as the j las in other materials. Neither article adds new evidence 
which establishes that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence regarding the circulation or viewership of media 
which published articles she asserts are about her and her work. She submits pages from the website 
cetre.ru which indicate that it "is a unique platform about the most interesting facts about the life of 
celebrities and the latest trends," and that the website has 220,000 unique users monthly and 1.1 
million page views monthly. However, the record does not include evidence which establishes that 
those viewership or visitor figures are comparable to those for major media. 
Also submitted on motion is a single webpage, www.totallook-magazine.com, which repeats a 
paragraph stating that the magazine is distributed in six countries. We note that circulation figures are 
not provided, and that the name of this magazine appears to be different than the magazine which the 
Petitioner asserts published an article about her, Total Look Children. This evidence is therefore 
insufficient to establish that Total Look Children is a major medium. Accordingly, the evidence 
submitted on motion does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. In addition, our review of new evidence submitted with the Petitioner's 
motion to reopen does not establish that she meets the individual criteria claimed or that is otherwise 
eligible for the requested benefit. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 8865930 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive specializing in education, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award) or satisfied at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder and a of shareholder of I I and the president of~~~~--------------
1 I. He earned a Master of Business Administration degree from the~---~ International 
Business School in 2013. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four of the evidentiary criteria, 
relating to material published about him and his work, his original business contributions of major 
significance, his leading role tori land its related companies, and his high salary in 
comparison to other education executives in China. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we find that he does not meet the initial evidence requirement by meeting at least three of these criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director found that while several print and online articles about the Petitioner and 
his work in the field had been submitted, the evidence did not establish that any of them were published 
in one of the qualifying types of media specified under this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner refers 
to previously-submitted evidence about these periodicals, China Profiles, Beijing Morning Post and 
Beijing Evening News, noting that "not all the initially submitted articles are published on so-called 
web portals" as discussed in the Director's decision. Although he lists the articles posted on 
www.tencent.com and www.sina.com on appeal, he does not challenge the Director's finding 
regarding the credibility of these sources. 
The evidence of an article published in China Profiles on I I 2018 consists of an original 
of the entire issue of this magazine. After review, we agree that this article is about the Petitioner and 
his work as an business executive specializing in the field of education. As to whether China Profiles 
2 
qualifies as a major medium, the Petitioner refers to information about this magazine included in the 
magazine itself, as well as information from its own website. These materials indicate that the 
magazine is managed by the Central Committee of the Communist Youth League and published twice 
every month, and describe it as a "high-level, high-profile, high-standard, and high-quality journal." 
However, they do not include circulation figures for the magazine, or circulation figures for other 
publications in China by which it can be determined through comparison that China Profiles is a major 
medium.1 
The Petitioner also submitted information about China Profiles published on the website 
www.baidu.com. However, according to materials submitted by the Petitioner, this is a user-edited 
online encyclopedia, similar to Wikipedia. As there are no assurances about their reliability, the 
content from open, user-edited Internet sites will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See Badasa v. 
Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008). 
Other articles submitted are also about the Petitioner, including two which the Petitioner asserts were 
published in Beijing Morning Post, and another in Beijing Evening News. However, upon review of 
one of the articles claimed to have been published in the Beijing Morning Post, there are discrepancies 
regarding its content. Specifically, several passages from the China Profiles article appear in the 
article asserted to have been published in thel I 2013 Beijing Morning Post article, despite 
the five-year difference in claimed publication dates between the two articles, as well as different 
authors and publishers. Notably, the following paragraph appears in both articles: 
In the impetuous teaching and auxiliary industry,! laged 40 is like an "olddity" -
1 when peers indulge in venture capital investment and go all out for expansion, 
still remains a rare calm. However, as the bubble fades and the education industry 
begins to call for a return to "true nature," people suddenly look back and find that 
'exotic1 lis moving forward earnestly. 
Although the statement regarding thd I being "aged 40" would have been accurate as of 
the date when the China Profiles article was published in 2018, it was not accurate in 2013. In 
addition, both articles include the following sentence: "As of last year, the number of students 
stabilized between 1200 and 1300 every year, accounting for about 30%-40% of the repetition market 
in Beijing." As this statement refers to a stabilization in the number of students that happened in a 
specific year ("last year"), it could not have been accurate in both 2013 and 2018. These 
inconsistencies must be resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved material inconsistencies may lead 
us to reevaluate the reliability and sufficiency of other evidence submitted in support of the requested 
immigration benefit. Id. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, noting that "Evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the 
circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics ... " 
3 
In addition, the plain language of this criterion requires that evidence of published material must 
include the title, date and author of the material. The article claimed to have been published in Beijing 
Evening News does not include the name of the author. Also, the evidence of this article does not 
consist of either an original or a photocopy of the article as published in print, nor does it include a 
website address indicating that it was published on the newspaper's website. This evidence therefore 
does not establish that this material was published in the Beijing Evening News as claimed. 
We further note that in addition to the discrepancies noted above regarding these articles, the Petitioner 
has not established that these publications qualify as major media. Although the Petitioner submitted 
webpages from www.baidu.com with information regarding both newspapers, including circulation 
figures, we again note that evidence from user-edited online encyclopedias such as this will not be 
given consideration, as there are no assurances regarding the reliability of the information posted. 
Additional evidence from the website of the publisher of both newspapers indicates that as of 2016, 
the combined circulation of all of its ten newspapers was more than two million, accounting for more 
than 60% of the Beijing newspaper market. However, this evidence does not include circulation data 
for the individual newspapers, and thus does not establish that either Beijing Morning Post or Beijing 
Evening News qualify as major media. 
For all of the reasons given above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from the executive vice president o~ !which verifies that the 
Petitioner is a founder and chairman of the company, and lists his annual salary from 2007 through 
2018. The letter indicates that his salary for the last two years was RMB 1,000,000. To show that this 
salary is high in comparison to others in his field, he also submitted an article posted to the website 
www.jiemodui.com onl 12017, which discusses "information from Mustard Pile" concerning 
a report titled I I which is also 
referred to in the article as I I" The article 
indicates that this report was released by an "education entrepreneurship talent recruitment service 
platform," cailu-edu.com, and a human resource consulting firm, I I However, the 
record does not include the report, or further information about jiemodui.com, "Mustard Pile," or the 
two entities said to have prepared and released the report. The third-hand nature of the information 
presented, in addition to the lack of information about the preparers of the report or the two entities 
through which this information has been forwarded, severely limits the reliability and probative value 
of the information presented. 
In addition, the figures presented do not establish that the Petitioner's salary is high in comparison to 
others in his field. We first note that the article indicates that they were compiled through information 
from "38 representative enterprises," many of which are in various stages of the start-up process, and 
that the data is not grouped by locality or region. This information indicates that the data may not be 
broad enough to provide relevant data for the entire education industry, does not provjdJ comparable 
information for salaries in established businesses such asl land the I and does not 
4 
reflect local or regional differences in salary within the industry. For these reasons, it has not been 
shown that this article provides relevant or sufficient data for comparison to the Petitioner's salary. 
Further, even if we were to consider this data both reliable and relevant, it does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's salary is high, as opposed to merely above average, in relation to others in his field 
and position. A graph under the heading of "General Manager" indicates that the mean salary is nearly 
RMB 800,000, and that those in the 75th percentile earn slightly above RMB 1 million, while the 
average salary is above RMB $1.1 million. If accurate, these figures suggest that a number of similarly 
situated education executives earn far more than the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that since he is a "45% shareholder of his school," we should 
consider "undistributed profits" of roughly RMB 3.6 million as part of his remuneration. We first note 
that whilel Is 2017 annual report shows that he contributed RMB 1 million of a total of RMB 
2.2 million in capital contributions towards the company, he has not submitted evidence that he owns 
a similar share of thel I which the evidence indicates is a separate legal entity. In 
addition, the Petitioner appears to base this figure onl l's balance sheet for 2017, which the record 
does not indicate has been audited. Further, the Petitioner has not established that he received RMB 
3.6 million in 2017, or that he is entitled to receive 45% of the company's undistributed profits for the 
year. 
For all of the reasons stated above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
As discussed above, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner satisfies the criteria 
relating published material about him and a high salary compared to others in his field. While the 
Petitioner claims eligibility under two additional criteria on appeal, those relating to contributions of 
major significance in his field at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(v) and a leading or critical role at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach those additional grounds. Because the Petitioner 
cannot satisfy the initial evidentiary requirement by meeting at least three of the criteria under 
8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3), we reserve those issues. 2 Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the 
decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 
2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21635112 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 25, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a rehabilitation services provider, seeks to employ the Beneficiary as a speech language 
pathologist , and to classify her as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of a beneficiary 's achievements in the field through a one­
time achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable evidence if it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation . 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary earned a doctorate in speech language pathology from the Universi 
India, in 2013. From 2016 to 2020, the Beneficiary served on the facul o Institute of 
Speech and Hearing I I affiliated withl !University in India. The 
Beneficiary entered the United States in January 2020 to work for ________ in H-lB 
nonimmigrant status. In August 2020, still in H-lB status, she began working for the Petitioner as a 
speech-language pathologist contracted to public schools in California -first at I I 
Elementary School and then at thel I School District. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that the Beneficiary received a major, internationally 
recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)---(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, 
summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to participation as a judge 
and authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it has also submitted 
evidence to meet the criteria relating to prizes; membership in associations; original contributions; and 
leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding display 
at artistic exhibitions, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned.1 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
related to judging (through the Beneficiary's peer review activity) and authorship of scholarly articles. 
We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)(stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-­
CV-2 7312011, 2011WL4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to theAAO). 
2 
First, however, we note that the Petitioner's appeal includes some new material, chief among them 
being an "expert evaluation letter" from a speech language pathologist on the faculty of 
University. If this and other materials had appeared to be likely to affect the outcome of the appeal, 
we would have remanded the case for the Director to consider these new materials. But the letter is 
essentially a synopsis of the existing evidence of record, with the summary conclusion that asserts 
such evidence is sufficient to establish eligibility. As explained below, we do not agree with this 
conclusion. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The USCIS Policy Manual states: 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards 
was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to: 
• The criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; 
• The national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and 
• The number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on 
competitors ( an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, 
may have little national or international significance). 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/po1icymanua1. 
The Petitioner initially claimed research grants and a "Certificate of Clinical Competence" under this 
criterion. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusion that these attainments are not prizes 
or awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims only one qualifying award. The Beneficiary received the ___ 
Award for at a 2007 conference of the Indian Speech and Hearing Association 
(ISHA). The Director concluded that eligibility for the award was limited to conference participants. 
The Petitioner asse1is on appeal that "the Award is a national award," which "can be given 
to any national or international professional in the entire speech-language and hearing field." The key 
requirement, however, is national or international recognition, not national availability. In its appellate 
brief, the Petitioner describes ISHA and the process by which that organization selects the winning paper, 
but neither of these factors establishes that the I I Award is nationally or internationally 
recognized. For example, the Petitioner asse1ts that papers presented at the conference are selected from 
a larger number of candidate submissions, but this appears to be a regular practice of academic 
conferences, rather than an indication that participants seek consideration for a best paper award. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a newly-written letter from an ISHA 
official, who referred to the I I Award as "prestigious" but did not elaborate or provide 
corroborating evidence. 
3 
The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish the national or international recognition 
of thel IA ward. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classtfication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asse1ts that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion because she is a member of ISHA and 
the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). 
ISHA governing documents in the record indicate that the qualifications for life membership are payment 
of a membership fee and "an Under-Grnduate or Post-Graduate [degree] in Speech-Language." Neither 
of these requirements amounts to an outstanding achievement in the field as required by the regulation, 
and the Petitioner has not shown that ISHA relies on recognized national or international experts to 
determine whether or not a prospective member meets membership requirements. 
Regarding her ASHA membership, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiaty holds a higher level of 
membership limited to individuals who hold a Certificate of Clinical Compliance. The Petitioner asserts 
that this certification entailed a credential evaluation, completing a 36-week clinical fellowship, and 
passing a Praxis exam. The Petitioner has not shown that any of these steps are outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major signifzcance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director concluded that, while the Petitioner has documented the Beneficiaty's original 
contributions, the Petitioner has not established the major significance of those contributions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 
Research in the field of speech-language pathology is aimed to promote the investigation 
of speech-language and hearing disorders, foster improvement of therapeutic procedures 
for such disorders, and to stimulate the exchange of information among persons engaged 
in and disseminating such information. Therefore, the Beneficiary's expansive research 
in and of itself should be automatically considered as a major contribution to the field. 
The stated conclusion does not follow from the premise, and does not explain why speech-language 
pathology research "should automatically be considered as a major contribution to the field" of speech­
language pathology. The Petitioner must establish the significance of the Beneficiary's contributions, 
rather than the intrinsic importance of the overall field. 
4 
Publication of scholarly articles satisfies a separate criterion, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); in order to 
satisfy this additional criterion, the Petitioner must establish the major significance of the Beneficiaty's 
contributions. Publication and presentation can be indicators of originality, but not of major significance 
without additional evidence to establish that factor. Peer-reviewed "presentations or articles in scholarly 
journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, 
or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index that cite the person's work as authoritative in 
the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor." 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
A Google Scholar printout lists 12 articles and papers by the Beneficiary. The printout shows that one of 
those articles has been cited three times since its publication in 2016. Two other articles, published in 
2009 and 2012 respectively, have each been cited once. The Petitioner has not established that this total 
is a "goodly number" of citations in her field, or that the citations occurred in a context that demonstrates 
major significance. 
The Petitioner asserts that the "citations indicate that [ the Beneficiary's] research ... is being used, 
considered and implemented by other researchers in the field." The standard is not whether the 
Beneficiary's contributions are productive and useful, but whether they have major significance. 
On a eal the Petitioner em hasizes twos ecific ro·ects. The title of the first is 
The Petitioner asserts that 
this project led the Beneficiary to develop a "new test/scale for the assessment of speech and language 
development inl I .. [which] is now routinely used for clinical assessment and progress 
monitoring across different training institutes in India." The Petitioner, however, documents its use at 
only two institutions: I I where the Beneficiary was an associate professor atthe time she developed 
the test; and the All-India Institute for Speech and Hearing, which provided the grant funding for the 
underlying research. A letter froml I explains how the test is useful, but does not establish its major 
significance. The same letter indicates that other existing "tests and scales are usedroutinely" in the field, 
with no explanation as to how this particular test is of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Beneficiary "developed anl I software for rehabilitation of 
language in thd I language," which "can be used in children with delayed speech and language 
with poor vocabulary" and "adult language disorders such as Aphasia who exhibit word finding 
difficulties." Both the software and the test described above are specifically for use in thel I 
language, which the Beneficiary describes as a "regional lankage of I India." This appears to 
limitthe impact of the Beneficiary's projects to the __ region; the Petitioner has notmetits burden 
of proof by explaining why the test or the software are of major significance throughout the field. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a critical role, we first look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a 
way that is of significant impmiance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or 
those of a division or department of the organization or establishment. A supporting role may be 
5 
considered "critical" if the person's performance in the role is ( or was) important in that way. It is not 
the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is (or was) critical. 6 USCISPolicy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. Further below, we discuss the 
second element of the organization's distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary performed in a critical role atl I first as an associate 
professor and then as a professor and principal. The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary "conducted 
theoretical and clinical classes" and "served as a chairperson for the board of examiners for undergraduate 
and postgraduate programs at !University." The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not 
shown how the Beneficiary's roles have been critical or"more valuablethanothercolleagges atherplaces 
of employment." As a result, the Director did not address the question of whether I has a 
distinguished reputation. 
The record contains letters from the chairman of I, asserting that the Beneficiary "played a critical 
role in the growth and development of the institute" and served for two years ''as the Chairperson for the 
Board of Examinations ... forundergraduateand postgraduate courses in the field of speechandhearing." 
The submitted information indicates that the Beneficiary's role atl I went beyond the typical 
responsibilities of a faculty member, but the information describes limited, specified functions that the 
Petitioner has not shown to be of "significant importance" to the outcome of I activities. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established thatl I has a distinguished reputation, with 
"distinguished" defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent 
person." 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The chairperson's description of I as "a premier Institute in India" does not suffice in this regard. 
The chairperson indicated thatl lis "approved by the Rehabilitation Council oflndia (RCI) to run 
Undergraduate and Postgraduateprograms,"but suchapprovalis effectively permission to operate, rather 
than evidence of a distinguished reputation. The RCI Certificates of Approval in the record appear to 
designate the approval as provisional; they advise that the approvals will be canceled unless certain 
"shortcomings" are remedied. The Petitioner did not submit copies of the portions of the certificates that 
list those shortcomings, or evidence that they were overcome and approval was no longer provisional. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's work in the United States, the Petitioner asserts: "In her current role with 
[the Petitioner], [the Beneficiary] has played a critical role in various California school districts, as she 
has presented her research ... [and] has also trained teachers on how to apply this knowledge and 
awareness in a school setting." The Petitioner does not adequately explain or demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary's work as a contracted speech pathologist is critical to those school districts. 
The Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
If the above standards do not readily apply to the beneficiary's occupation, the petitioner 
may submit comparable evidence to establish the beneficiary's eligibility. 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(4). 
6 
At various stages in this proceeding, the Petitioner has asserted that some materials in the record constitute 
comparable evidence. In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established 
that the submitted evidence is comparable to regulatory criteria that do not readily apply to the 
Beneficiary's occupation. 
When evaluating claimed comparable evidence, we consider whether the regulatory criteria are readily 
applicable to the person's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly comparable to 
the criteria listed in that regulation. 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's research and travel "grants are comparable to 
awards, because grants are awarded after a rigorous and competitive selection process." The criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) relates to nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence. The 
Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's grants are nationally or internationally recognized, and 
approved on the basis of excellence in the field. Furthermore, a petitioner may rely on comparable 
evidence only when the standard regulatory criteria do not readily apply to a beneficiary's occupation. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h)(4 ). Here, the Petitioner has claimed that the Beneficiary received a qualifying award, 
effectively stipulating that that the criterion relating to prizes and awards does readily apply to her 
occupation. 
The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that (1) the standard regulatory criteria do not readily apply to 
the Beneficiary's occupation, and (2) the evidence submitted is indeed comparable to the evidence that 
would meet one of those criteria. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Beneficiary has attained the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks to obtain for the Beneficiary a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward 
the top. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition 
of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record establishes that the Beneficiary used to perform research while employed in academia, and 
that she continues to pmvide therapeutic care to students in schools that contract the petitioning company 
for those services. While the Beneficiary's research has added knowledge to her field, and therapeutic 
services are valuable to the individuals receiving them, these activities are intrinsic to the Beneficiary's 
7 
occupation rather than hallmarks of specific recognition and acclaim. The Petitioner has shown that the 
Beneficiary has had an active and productive career, but has not met its burden of proof to establish that 
the Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim, and stands in the small percentage 
of those at the very top of her field. From the documentation submitted, her impact in the field appears 
to have been largely limited to the institutions where she has worked. Where the documentation does 
meet the letter of two regulatory criteria, it does so in ways that appear to be more routine in academia -
specifically, through publication of the Beneficiary's own research, and through peer review of articles 
by others. The Beneficiary's evaluation of graduate theses appears to have been inherent to her 
responsibilities as a college professor. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9369644 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability as a fashion model. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a fashion model for~------~in~I ___ ~ 
New York. As the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record reflects that major media featured the Petitioner in their publications. 
In addition, the record shows that the Petitioner displayed her work at fashion shows and exhibits, 
fulfilling the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Further, she commanded a high 
salary in relation to other fashion models, satisfying the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Therefore, the Petitioner demonstrated that she meets at least three regulatory criteria, and we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
2 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner appeared in major media, such as publications by Vogue, 
Harper's Bazaar, Elle, Glamour, and the New York Times. Further, the news re arts rovide evidence 
of the Petitioner's standin in the field such as 
'-;:::=========-·~·===,--~-----~--------''and',__ __ ..-----~-.....,,.. ,__--..--------~-"_I n_d_e_ed~,_H_ar~e_r'_s_B~azaar ranked the Petitioner,___ __ ___, in the 
article,",__ _____________ ~· Accordingly, the Petitioner has demonstrated 
the required sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner established that she has walked a multitude of runways, including opening 
and closing at fashion shows. In addition she has been featured at the top four international fashion 
week events inl 11 I, and The followin sam les of media covera e 
re orted on her artistic exhibitions: ' 
,...__ ___ _._....__ ___________________ ~ ___ ___.'and,__ __ ~ 
Moreover, the Petitioner 
demonstrated that the field's demand for her resulted in modeling for prestigious and leading brands, 
such asl 11 11 I and D In fact, models.com wrote that "[r]ecently in I lmodel watchers marked [the Petitioner] as one to watch after shel lthe much anticipated 
I khow with an exclusive." As such, the Petitioner has shown that she has achieved a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Moreover, the Petitioner has demonstrated that based on her popularity and reputation, she commands 
a high salary placing her among the small percenta e at the ver to of her field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5 h 2 . Indeed, Vo ue commented that 
,.__ __________ ___, " As further evidence of her status in the field, the record contains 
recommendation letters setting her significantly apart from other fashion models, such as "[the 
Petitioner's] name is repeatedly on every designer's and casting director's radar for shows" and "[t]he 
quality and caliber of her modeling work keeps her on total recall of key fashion editors and casting 
directors which speaks to firmly establish her international model status and acclaim." 
In summary, the Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a fashion model. The totality 
of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that 
she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor and that she has documented 
sustained international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 956 {Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained 
national and international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has shown that she intends to continue working in her area of 
expertise and that she wi II substantially benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6221341 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jeweler, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth an initial evidentiary threshold of recognition through either a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such 
as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have been self-employed as a jeweler since February 2006.1 He has been in the 
United States since April 2016; at the time of filing, the Petitioner was a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor, a 
classification that does not permit employment in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
I (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (ii), (vi), 
and (vii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other three claimed criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has only satisfied criterion 
(vii), relating to display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Below, we will explain why the Petitioner 
has not satisfied the other five claimed criteria. 
1 The Petitioner was 15 years old in._l _ ___,12006. 
2 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
A photocopied certificate indicates tha~ l Realism awarded the Petitioner a "Saint Michael Gold 
Medal ... in the category JEWERL Y [sic] ART DECO" at thel I competition in 2016. A 
second certificate indicates that the Petitioner "has been awarded the University I !Prize for Best 
Overall Performance for Master of jewelry Academic year 2009-2010." 
The Petitioner did not establish that either of these prizes is nationally or internationally recognized. The 
University I I prize appears to be an academic award, limited to students at the University. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in assoc1at1ons in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. We disagree. 
A translated certificate indicates that the Beneficiary is a "Jeweler master" witH I described as 
a craftsman's association. A letter attributed to a regional official ofl btates: "The I I 
Association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in the field of Folk Art." Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations 
does not satisfy a petitioner's burden of proof. Fed in Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F.2d 41 (2d Cir. 1990). 
After the Director asked for corroborating evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter attributed to the 
chief executive officer ofl I stating: "In accordance with the Charter of I I [sic] 
Association, admission to the Association is granted based on the recommendation of Art Experts 
Council composed solely of nationally or internationally recognized experts." The Petitioner has not 
submitted a copy of the Charter or other governing documents to establish I l's membership 
requirements. 
We cannot consider the letter itself to be corroboration of the membership requirements as the 
following passage from the same letter raises grave questions about its origin and authenticity: 
Regarding work ethic, [the Petitioner] completes his work quickly and with the highest 
quality. On more than one occasion, [the Petitioner] was given total responsibility for 
developing critical components to our systems and each time he delivered total quality 
software. 
Apart from the tone of this passage, which more resembles an employer's recommendation letter than 
an explanation ofl l's membership requirements, the references to "critical components" and 
"quality software" have no demonstrated relevance to the matter at hand. The letter also indicates that 
3 
the Petitioner's "efforts were recently rewarded with a promotion in his profession," although the 
Petitioner claims to be self-employed. Given these anomalies, we cannot afford this letter any 
significant weight or credibility. Unresolved material inconsistencies raise questions about the 
reliability and sufficiency evidence submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. See 
Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
A second letter attributed to the same official describes I ts purpose and activities, but does 
not discuss how it selects its members. This second letter indicates thatl I has 15,000 
members, a size that does not readily suggest highly selective membership requirements. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his membership in~I ---~I meets the regulatory requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
A translated article from Buxoroyi Sharif contends that "[e]verybody knows [the Petitioner] even in 
foreign countries." The editor of the publication states: "The newspaper is published every Thursday 
with around ... 500 print issues containing about 4-6 pages each." This information does not establish 
that Buxoroyi Sharif constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other major media. Rather, 
it appears to be a general-interest newspaper with limited, local circulation. 
After the Director issued a request for evidence, three more pieces about the Petitioner appeared, all in I I 2018, more than a year after the petition's filing date in July 2017. The Petitioner must meet all 
eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The nearly simultaneous 
appearance of these three pieces, days before the deadline for the Petitioner to respond to the request for 
evidence, raises questions about their origin and purpose. 
Also, the Petitioner did not show that these newly submitted materials.::aa==:....::=-:.:...:...=.:=c.:...L..:.=-=-=-:...:..===:..... 
article appeared in The Bukharian Times, the "Weekly Newspaper of ' A 
second article appeared in Zaman-Times, a Russian-language publication originating from,__ __ ___, D, New York, three miles from thd I publisher of The Bukharian Times. Both articles 
show several of the same photographs of the Petitioner. Both publications appear to be narrowly tailored 
to expatriates from I Uzbekistan, who now reside inl New York. 
A screen capture from a YouTube video, identified as an interview with I I' shows only "1 view" of the video. The video and the "local craft" channel that posted it are 
no longer available on YouTube as of August 18, 2020.2 
2 The web address for the video, https://www.youtube.com/watchl I is no longer active. The channel 
currently called "local craft" does not include the interview video, and did not become active unti I February 2020. 
Therefore, it cannot be the same channel that posted the interview with the Petitioner in August 2018. See 
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCX-OIKmaPFTnc3DBtf_gJhw/about (last visited Aug. 18, 2020). 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he established that the published material appeared in qualifying 
media, but he does not elaborate except to refer back to the materials described above, which, as 
explained, do not show that the submitted materials meet the requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner has submitted several letters, attributed to officials of various 
cultural organizations, but these letters are neither persuasive nor credible. 
One letter states that the Petitioner "has made an original contribution of major significance to the field 
of traditional Uzbek village jewellery by preserving the unique artisti~e of traditional Uzbek 
jewellery." Another letter indicates that the Petitioner "was able to revivel_Jtechnique from the 19-
20 centuries and to add to them his own developed unique creative patterns and ideas." The letters do not 
explain how preserving or reviving a traditional art form constitutes an original contribution, and the 
vague reference to the Petitioner's "own developed unique creative patterns and ideas" conveys no useful 
information about the nature of those ideas and does not explain how they are of major significance. 
Uncorroborated anecdotes about satisfied customers may attest to the Petitioner's skill as a jeweler, but 
do not distinguish the Petitioner's work from that of other competent artists in his field. 
Two of the submitted letters describe the Petitioner's work in identical language. Both letters, for 
example, include this passage: 
In his work, [the Petitioner] was able to mix ethno-historical signs and symbols and the 
mytho-poetic semantics of ornamental motifs of different cultural epochs, as well as to 
perfect my technique of production, my use of precious metals and high-quality natural 
gems and minerals, to achieve the desired elevation of figurative perception of my designs. 
The use of identical language across various letters from supposedly different sources can indicate that 
the assertions in these documents are not credible. See Surinder Singh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d 
Cir. 2006) (upholding an adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings based in part on the 
similarity of the affidavits); see also Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dep't. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 
2007) (concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when an asylum applicant 
submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). In evaluating the evidence, 
the truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 376 (quoting Matter of E-M-, 20 l&N Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989). In this 
instance, the shared language is of particular concern because of the first-person references to "my use 
of precious metals" and "my designs." 
The letters submitted by the Petitioner are of questionable origin, and do not specifically identify any 
original contribution of major significance to the field. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he "submitted extensive evidence as to his original artistic 
contributions of major significance to his field of endeavor." Rather than elaborate upon this point by 
identifying those contributions and demonstrating their significance, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director did not give sufficient weight to the letters submitted in support of the petition. We have 
explained, above, why those letters have negligible evidentiaryweight. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
We disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
The Petitioner submits what he initially described as "[e]vidence of Beneficiary's authorship of 
publications in his field of endeavor." The Petitioner's wording, "authorship of publications," omits the 
regulatory reference to scholarly articles. A scholarly article should be written for learned persons in 
that field. ("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship.") 
Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field.3 
Initially, the Petitioner submitted a few photocopied pages of.___ ______ ___, described as a 
book for readers to "get acquainted with the modern master of jewelry art." The book appears to be very 
short; the page containing the "Conclusion" is numbered 23. The submitted pages consist mostly of large 
photographs, with text in large type. The submitted excerpts do not contain scholarly writing. Rather, 
they consist of general statements about jewelry, with some information about the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner has since submitted a complete book entitled ........,,.----,-------,-.,..,..........-----,-,........,.,.......,..,...--.,,..-,---' The book is dated 2018, after the July 2017 filing date. Therefore, it cannot establish eligibility as of the 
filing date. This book is deficient for several other reasons. Portions of the book are formatted in the 
manner of a scholarly article, with footnoted source citations, but other parts of the book provide only 
general information, consistent with popular rather than scholarly writing. 
There are also editor credits, but inconsistencies in the text raise questions about the extent of 
thoroughness of any editorial review. The text is somewhat disjointed, changing subjects every few pages 
with no transitions, and there are several internal author credits which should not be necessary as the 
Petitioner is the sole credited author of the entire book. These traits suggest a compilation of previously 
published articles, but the Petitioner provides no evidence of their prior publication. 
Also, several of the i I lustrations are uncaptioned with no explanation for their relevance to the surrounding 
text. Some portions of the book use the American spellings of the words "jeweler" and "jewelry," but 
other sections use the British spellings "jeweller" and "jewellery." The body of the text ends abruptly 
3 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14, 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
6 
with a description ofl I nose rings. These anomalies appear to be inconsistent with significant 
editorial review of the text. 
The Petitioner has not shown that either of his books constitute professional or major trade publications 
or other major media. A partial photocopy of the back cover of,___ ______ ___, indicates that 
100 copies of the book were printed; the incomplete copy contains no publication information. I I I !appears to have been privately printed; the spine is blank and there is no ISBN number 
or UPC bar code. There is a reference to a publishing house, but only with respect to "typesetting." 
Furthermore, the record does not establish that the books have actually been published; printing and 
binding, by themselves, do not constitute publication. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Director determined that the Petitioner had satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, 
the Director then proceeded to a final merits determination to determine if the evidence demonstrates 
that the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim consistent with 
extraordinary ability in his field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.4 
While we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has met three of the initial criteria, 
we wi 11 briefly consider key findings from the Di rector's final merits determination. In that determination, 
the Director essentially stated that, while the Petitioner had satisfied the letter of the requirements for 
three of the regulatory criteria, the evidence submitted for that purpose does not establish sustained 
national or international acclaim or place the Petitioner at the top of his field. For example, regarding 
display of the Petitioner's work, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied the 
requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(h)(3)(vii), but did not establish the significance of the events where 
the Petitioner displayed his work or show that his participation demonstrates sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address or rebut these specific points. Instead, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director applied too stringent a standard of proof, and the Petitioner contends that the final 
merits determination should have followed the blueprint of a 1994 district court decision that is not 
binding in this case. 
The standard of proof in these proceedings is the "preponderance of the evidence," which requires that 
the evidence demonstrate that the claim is "probably true," where the determination of "truth" is made 
based on the factual circumstances of each individual case. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 376. In 
adjudicating the petition pursuant to the preponderance of the evidence standard, a director must 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
7 
examine each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true. Id. 
In this instance, there are several serious reasons to doubt the truth of assertions in the record. We 
explained these reasons above and need not repeat them here. The Petitioner has not established 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence, and the record does not contain any credible evidence 
that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim in his field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals who are able to assemble testimonials attesting to their 
talent. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17773598 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a musician , composer , and music producer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. See section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly aiiicles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-paii review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits detennination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a singer, songwriter, musician, and music producer. He has released five so lo albums, 
toured internationally, and collaborated as a co-producer, co-writer and musician on the albums and 
singles of other recording artists. The Petitioner has also contributed original music to commercial 
campaigns and television soundtracks and served as the composer for the,__ _____ __.series I I He states that he intends to continue working in the United States as a songwriter, 
composer, and producer. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). TheDirectorconcludedthathemettwo ofthetencriteria. Specifically, 
the Director determined that the Petitioner had established his receipt of nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards and provided evidence of published material about him, and therefore 
satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets up to four additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is othe1wise eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner meets two additional 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others in his field and commercial success in the performing 
arts. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and(x). 
With respect to the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner provided evidence 
that he has been a voting member of The Recording Academy since 2015, in which capacity he votes 
among the nominees for the annual Grammy Awards. By having some influence over the selection of 
1 The record shows that the Petitionerwa s working in the United States for several years prior to the filing of this petition 
pursuantto E-2 nonimmigrantstatus. He is the ownerotl , I a music production company. 
2 
award winners, the Petitioner participates as a judge as described in the regulation. He has documented 
his participation in voting for three editions of the Grammy Awards and therefore satisfies this 
criterion. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) focuses on volume of sales and boxofficereceipts in relation 
to others as a measure of an individual's commercial success in the perfmming aiis. The Petitioner 
claims eligibility under this criterion based on the commercial success ofc=Js 2007 albumD I I on which he se · · vidence that the album 
was certified Gold by the in 2009 based on sales 
of more than 500,000 in the United States) and certified Double Platinum b .__ ____ _.(based on 
sales of more than 200,000 units in Canada). The Director acknowledged this evidence but determined 
the criterion had not been met. In reaching this dete1mination, the Director emphasized that the 
Petitioner claimed eligibility for this classification "as a producer, not a performing aiiist," that he did 
not "provide evidence of sales or box office receipts," and that he did not provide evidence that he "is 
featured in any promotional material that may lend credence thatthe success of a particular production 
in which [he] performed can be attributed to [him]." 
The evidence establishes that both thel ts andl l's certification programs require 
record labels to submit proof of commercial sales that is subject to audit and that they are recognized 
industry wide as indicators of commercial success. The Petitioner also provided evidence that he was 
personally presented with a '1 [" plaque froni lhased 
on his contributions to the album land that he is mentioned asc=Js co-producer and 
close collaborator in the many submitted reviews and media articles about the album. We conclude 
that the Petitioner established his contributions to the album's commercial success, and that he has 
satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he meets the initial evidence requirements 
for this classification by satisfying at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is among the small percentage atthe very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. Here, we conclude that the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility for the benefit sought 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has received international acclaim for his work as a music 
producer and collaborator with other artists, includin~andl lsinger-songwriterD 
among others. As noted, the Petitioner was credited as a co-writer, co-producer, and musician 
's albuml I which received D Grammy A ward nominations in 200 8 andc=J 
wards from thel !Academy ofRecordingA1is and Sciences. The album also enjoyed 
3 
noteworthy critical acclaim and extensive media coverage as evidenced by reviews and articles in 
mainstream and music industry publications including New York Times, NPR, People, Spin, Rolling 
Stone, and many others. Further, the album achieved commercial success as evidenced by its Gold 
andl lfrom thel I and I I The album's success resulted 
in live performances at the Grammf Awards, Saturday Night Live, and other jajorl televised 
broadcasts, including the I Olympics, for which the Petitioner served as s musical 
director. As mentioned above, the Petitioner's contributions to these achievements are acknowledged 
in the many submitted reviews, articles, and interviews about the album, and are confirmed in letters 
frorrc=]'s management and others in the industry. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has since received sustainedrecognition in the industry asD's 
long-time close collaborator and is well-known for his contributions as a co-writer aid co-producer 
onl ~ critically acclaimed follow-ups tol lThese albums include (2011) 
which was certified platinum inl I reache~~----~on the Billboard 200 chart and earned 
al IA ward nomination and~ I Music Prize. In 201 7, the Petitioner again collaborated with ~ as a writer and producer on her studio albuml l which reached the Billboardl I 
Top 10 and achieved critical acclaim as evidenced by its inclusion on many year-end best album lists ~or media. In addition to his work witp the Petitioner co-wrote and c~-prodTed thee=] 
L_____.J single 1 ~ which received th O f prize at the 20 I Awards and 
was certified triple platinum by th~ I Recording Industry Association. The Petitioner's 
contributions to this song and other recordings by I land other artists are highlighted in the 
submitted media articles and earned him additional acclaim as a songwriter and producer.I I 
I tan A&R Manager at,__ _______ ___, states that he has "watched [the Petroner'sll 
career skyrocket with outstanding work on his productions wit~ ID,I I, 
Oandmore." 
In addition to his work as a producer and co-writer for other artists, the Petitioner has released five 
solo albums and three EPs since 2002 and has toured in North America, Europe, and Japan. Feature 
stories, articles, interviews, and reviews focusing on the Petitioner and his work have appeared in 
media outlets such as BBC, NPR, Pitchfork, Wired, Fader, Vice and Bandcamp, as well as Canadian 
national newspapers The Globe and Mail and the National Post. Overall, the Petitioner has submitted 
significant press coverage of his career spanning a period of 15 years. The Petitioner's acclaim in the 
field is further evidenced by the inclusion of his son s on soundtracks for television shows including -------~·,I t,L._ _____ ..,.......... ____ ----....r--_.Jand 
, as well as soundtracks for several feature films, includin '-'---------' 
As a composer, the Petitioner has contributed original music to commercial campaigns for major 
brands including A le Adidas and Porsche. He has also achieved acclaim for his work as the 
composer for the,__ __ ~--~---__.show,___----.======f which earned him a~ I I award at the 2020 Awards sponsored c::J I anl !distributor and 
streaming service described as "the world's most popular brand." 
Based on this evidence of his achievements and earned recognition, as well as other evidence not 
discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated his extraordinary ability as a musician and producer 
and established that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
4 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The totality of the evidence establishes thatthe Petitioner 
possesses a level of expertise that is consistent with a finding that he is one of a small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor and that he has the required sustained acclaim. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He has also demonstrated sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore qualifies for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20812457 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a tattoo artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that he fulfills at least 
three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de 
nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is currently employed as a tattoo artist at _________ in I I Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and 
artistic display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets 
three additional evidentiary criteria, which will be discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate his prizes or awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding 
whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field including, but are not 
limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of 
the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any 
limitations on competitors. 2 
Here, the Petitioner submitted documentation indicating that he received the following awards: 
• "Best Large Color" second place at the (2019) 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, Appendices, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
2 Id. 
2 
• "Best of Day" at thel ITattoo Expo (2019) 
• "Best Tattoo of Second Day" first place at the I I Tattoo Week (2018) 
• "Medium Color" first place and "Tattoo of the Day (Color) Saturday" third place at the I lrattoo Arts Convention (2019 
• "Best Large Color Tattoo" at the Tattoo Arts Convention (2018) 
• "Best Large Color" and "Best Portrait" at the attoo Festival (2019) 
• "Best Asian Theme" second place at the Tattoo Competition (2019) 
• "Third place in the category 'Best of Color"' at the Tattoo Convention I (2018) 
• "Best of Black and Grey" second place and "Best of Color" second place at the "Tattoo 
Convention I I (2018) 
While the Petitioner provided promotional information about the above tattoo expositions from their 
organizers' websites and some media coverage relating to several of the events, this documentation 
does not indicate the si nificance of his particular awards. In addition, letters from the organizers of 
the Tattoo Expo, I I Tattoo Expo, I I Tattoo 
Week, and the ___ Tattoo Arts Convention mention the Petitioner's awards and discuss their 
tattoo conventions, but the record does not include evidence showing that the Petitioner's specific 
awards were recognized by the field in general or outside of the aforementioned events. Without 
further information regarding the selection criteria for his awards or evidence of their national or 
international significance in the field, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. The Petitioner has not established 
therefore that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. 3 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner argues that the Director disregarded letters from experts in his field 
that were provided in response to the Director's request for evidence. 4 He contends that these letters 
demonstrate that he "has made unique contributions of major significance to the field."5 As discussed 
below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific "original" contributions that the 
Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of major significance. 
For example, owner of _________ asserted that the Petitioner's "art is 
exceptional in I and Realistic Color. . . . [The Petitioner] has created a new style as far 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
4 The appellate brief also lists a "sponsorship agreement from dated September 2021," but the document is 
unsigned, and the agreement post-dates the filing of the petition. Eligibility, however, must be demonstrated at the time 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
5 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
as tattoo segment is concerned as one can clearly see how peers are getting inspired by this unique 
technique and trying to copy him all around the world." Likewise,! I owner of I 
Dattoo shop inlCalifomia, contended that the Petitioner "has created a unique artistic 
movement which did not exist before. He calls it the I lstyle. His designs are inspired 
by painters, movies, music and street culture of the 80's and 90's. This is really something innovative 
in our industry and entirely new in the tattoo world." The statements from I and I 
however, are insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's work has influenced the tattoo industry to the 
extent that it is of major significance in the field. The record does not include sufficient information 
or supporting evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's artistry has affected the field in a substantial 
way or otherwise constitutes original contributions of major significance in his field. 
In addition, I a tattoo artist with I in I I Poland, indicated 
that the Petitioner "created a new style which includes hyper realistic portraits of famous actors, or 
characters, all connected to th of the United States. He created his 
own signature brand .... [The petitioner's art is exce tional in color hyper realistic 
SimilarlyJ I owner of in I Canada, stated that the 
Petitioner "is an extraordinary tattoo artist who has created his own artistic movement called the I She further claimed that "many artists all over the world are influenced by [the 
Petitioner's] art and some have already begun implementing his style in their own creations," but she 
does not identify those individuals who have implemented his style, nor does the record show his level 
of influence on other tattoo artists in the field. While I landl I both asserted that the 
Petitioner has created a new artistic style, they did not offer specific examples of how his I I !artistry has risen to the level of a contribution of major significance in his field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how the individual's contributions are of major significance to the 
field and his impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or division thereof A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. For a critical role, 
we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a 
division or department of the organization or establishment. 7 
6 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2. 
7 Id. 
4 
The Petitioner maintains on appeal that he has performed in a critical role for 
I andl YouTube Channel,! I I and I 
With regard to his role for the evidence indicates that the Petitioner has 
served as a tattoo artist at the shop since 2018. In his letter dated September 30, 2021, studio owner 
I I stated: "Our studio has greatly benefited from [the Petitioner's] contributions and he has 
played a critical role in its fast growth. Having [the Petitioner] as a member of our team has definitely 
made our tattoo studio strive [sic] and gave it the recognition we had anticipated." Whilel ] 
asserted that his shop employs a number of "first class tattoo artists" and that the Petitioner's work is 
"in very high demand in our studio," he did not provide specific, detailed information demonstrating 
the critical nature of the Petitioner's role. 8 For instance,! I letter did not indicate the amount 
of revenue or new clients the Petitioner has brought into his studio, or otherwise explain how the 
Petitioner's role was critical relative to the other tattoo artists employed at the shop. Nor did I I letter identify specific examples of how the Petitioner has garnered recognition for the studio 
in a way that has been of significant importance to the outcome of the studio's business. Accordingly,  
the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has performed in a critical role for 
The record also includes letters from I l I and 
indicating that they have endorsement or sponsorship relationships with the Petitioner. For example, I co-founder ofl I stated: 
We are proud to be working with [the Petitioner] for our brand as well 
as ourl IYouTube channel which averages over 3 million views a month .... [W]e are honored honored to be working with [the Petitioner] on his customl I 
__ _jmd we look forward to a long and successful relationship together. 
We entered into a formal agreement with [the Petitioner] and he personally designed 
his 2019 which we put into production the same year. 
[The Petitioner] has permitted further global exposure of our line of I as well as 
our brand around the world. His role as an ambassador for our brand has been critical 
to our company as it has substantially increased our sales globally. Collaborating with 
artists ... such as [ the Petitioner] is critical to promoting our brand within the particular 
market niche our products cater to. 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that letters from individuals with personal knowledge of 
the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as 
the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical). 
5 
___ statements do not offer specific sales figures for thel I designed by the Petitioner 
or discuss his particular contribution in the context of the company's total sales revenue. Nor does I elaborate on the Petitioner's involvement with thel I YouTube channel or the 
importance of his role relative to the many other artists who participate in the 
Without detailed and probative information showing that the Petitioner's particular r 
promotional work has resulted in critical or essential outcomes for I or th _ 
LJYouTube channel, the evidence does not establish that he has performed in a critical role for the 
company . 
In addition, ___ owner of I asserted that his company "has greatly benefited 
from the Petitioner's critical endorsement of our products. We have planned to produce his personal 
__________ __,because he uses such a unique range of colors and skin tones in his 
tattoos." 
Likewise, _______ creative director at ____ stated: 
[The Petitioner] is a tattoo artist sponsored by _______ After using our 
products for years, [the Petitioner] has become a very valuable addition to our business 
by promoting our products and brand when attending international and national 
conventions . . . . [The Petitioner] helps us by spreading brand awareness worldwide 
and proving that our quality is as high-quality as his work. 
Additionallyj owner ofl I asserted that the Petitioner "is amongst our brand 
ambassadors of international reputation. He has been essential in the promotion of our brand 
worldwide as he participates in international conventions all year long." further indicated 
that the Petitioner's "contributions thus far have been critical to further exposing our products to other 
markets and increase our sales globally." 
The Petitioner also submitted his May 2018 -May 2020 "Sponsorship Contract" withl I I I His obligations under this contract included using I I providing 
photographs of his completed tattoos with the I promoting the company on social media, 
and displaying !publicity material while at conventions. 
The Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that his specific endorsement and sponsorship 
collaborations with and I I are integral to their operations as 
I _______ product producers and distributors such that his promotional activities rise to 
the level of a critical role. For example, the record does not indicate the amount or percentage of their 
company sales growth attributable to his product endorsements . While the evidence indicates that the 
Petitioner has helped promote their brands, the information provided in the aforementioned letters and 
sponsorship contract is insufficient to demonstrate that his specific role was critical for the successes 
or outcomes of their business operations. 
In addition, the evidence concerning _________ ___ I I andl I does not establish that they have a distinguished reputation. For 
instance, the Petitioner provided articles aboutl I in Orange County Weekly and 
Tokewell magazine, but he has demonstrated that this level of media coverage is insufficient to show 
6 
that the company has a distinguished reputation . 9 The record also includes information about the 
aforementioned companies from their own websites, but such self-promotional information is not 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have a earned a distinguished reputation. 
For all of the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received O-1B status, a classification reserved for 
nonirnmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved multiple 0-1 B nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner , the prior approvals do not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'! v. Mayorkas , et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 
2021); Q Data Consulting , Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 
905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore , our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating 
the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a 
district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual , we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate , concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification , intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress . H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that Merriam-Web ster's online dictionary 
defines distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction , or excellence). 
10 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2024 In Re: 32826124 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a nonprofit mental health provider seeking to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability as a medical director of one of their organizational divisions. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Beneficiary had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did the Petitioner demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of 
the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We 
review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 
2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he can satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed the 
Beneficiary met five of the regulatory criteria. The Director decided that the evidence relating to the 
Beneficiary satisfied one ofthe criteria relating to a high salary or remuneration, but it had not satisfied 
the criteria associated with membership, published material, judging, or a leading or critical role. On 
appeal, the Petitioner pursues its claims relating to judging and a leading or critical role, but only in 
the sense that the Director added requirements that are not included in the regulation. We note those 
claims were presented on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, in Part 7 and the appeal 
reflects the Petitioner would submit their brief and/or additional evidence to this office within 30 
calendar days after filing their appeal. However, the Petitioner has not provided anything further to 
date. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This criterion requires that the Petitioner produce evidence the Beneficiary actually participated as a 
judge. Additionally, these duties must have been directly judging the work of others in the same or 
an allied field in which the Beneficiary seeks their immigrant classification within the present petition. 
The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
In the initial filing before the Director, the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary performed judging duties 
as a member of two committees within the petitioning organization, as well as those he performed as 
an adjunct professor. Relating to the committees, the Petitioner claimed he measured and evaluated 
all areas of practitioner competency for care provided at the petitioning organization and they indicated 
he was responsible for reviewing and monitoring credentials of medical staff. They further asserted 
that in his role as an adjunct professor, the Beneficiary provided guidance and instrnctions to students 
2 
in which he ultimately evaluated their work. The only evidence the Petitioner offered consisted of a 
committee charter and an internal policy document relating to the responsibility of members of those 
committees, but it did not submit documentation demonstrating the Beneficiary actually performed 
any of those claimed judging functions. The Director correctly did not accept the general 
documentation of what committee members do as direct evidence of what functions the Beneficiary 
actually performed. 
And we note within the request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested "documentation that will 
be helpful to assist us in determining whether you served as a judge, and at what level, such as 
independent and objective documentation about the event or occasion where you served as judge, the 
work that you judged, the level of the participants, how you were selected as an official judge, and 
evidence conveying when your judging occurred." In response the Petitioner only submitted a copy 
of an unpublished district court decision, MRC Energy Co. v. US. Citizenship & lmmigr. Servs., No. 
3:19-eV-2003-K, 2021 WL 1209188, at *11 (N.D. Tex. Mar. 31, 2021), but they offered no material 
pertaining to the Director's specific request. 
Because the Director put the Petitioner on notice that the submitted evidence was insufficient, the 
Petitioner's failure to submit requested evidence that precludes a material line ofinquiry shall be grounds 
for denying the petition. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )( 14). Similar to the situation identified within 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l3)(i) which states: "Ifthe Petitioner or applicant fails to respond to a request for evidence or 
to a notice of intent to deny by the required date, the benefit request may be summarily denied as 
abandoned," the failure to respond to a specific element ofthe RFE also is considered to be abandonment 
of the Petitioner's eligibility claims relating to that element. As the Petitioner did not respond to the 
Director's RFE relating to the Beneficiary's performance as a judge, it is considered abandoned. 
The Petitioner argues on appeal that the Director unilaterally added to the plain language requirements 
of the regulation, the requirement that the beneficiary must participate in judging outside of his job. 
The Director's denial decision quoted the RFE stating: 
users does not find that working for a company performing duties, specific tasks, and 
activities (reviewing) on behalf of that company is a tantamount to "judging" the work 
of others in one's field for purposes of this criterion. Duties or activities inherent or 
routine in the occupation itself which nominally fall under a given regulatory criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not demonstrate that the beneficiary participated either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field 
of endeavor. 
The Director's denial decision further stated: 
Incidental evaluation responsibilities inherent to one's position do not establish that the 
beneficiary served in an official capacity, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others. users notes, that in an occupation where reviewing the work 
of others is an inherent duty of the occupation, simply performing one's job-related 
duties demonstrates competency but is not evidence that one's "achievements have 
been recognized in the field of expertise." 
3 
We note this quote's final sentence incorporates analysis we might include m a final merits 
determination, but not under the regulatory criterion. 
Within the Petitioner's RFE response, they cited to the MRC Energy Co. district court opinion to 
demonstrate the Director was incorrect in indicating the Beneficiary must judge the work of others 
outside of his job. There, the Petitioner asserted that the Director's decision imposed an 
extra-regulatory requirement by discounting the Beneficiary's judging activities in the course of his 
employment. And we agree with that aspect of the Petitioner's arguments on appeal. 
Nevertheless, the regulation requires a petitioner to provide "evidence of [the Beneficiary's] 
participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied 
field of specification for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director's 
denial addressed the aspect of judging the work of others in the field when they stated that "[t]he 
regulation cannot be read to include every informal instance of evaluating organizations subordinate 
employees." 
But the Petitioner doesn't address that aspect of the decision in the appeal, and our focus here is 
whether the Petitioner demonstrated that the Beneficiary judged the work of others in the field. While 
the Petitioner's appeal briefly addresses the issue of whether his judging duties may occur within his 
job functions, they did not argue how the Beneficiary's work duties amount to judging under this 
criterion. So, they not only failed to address that issue when responding to the RFE, but also in the 
appeal. Every basis of the adverse decision must be addressed in the appeal, otherwise we consider it 
to be abandoned within this and any subsequent proceeding based on this petition. See Matter of 
Garcia, 28 I&N Dec. 693,693 (BIA 2023) (finding arguments that do not meaningfully challenge any 
aspect of the underlying decision are deemed waived on appeal). 
In summary, the Petitioner has not presented appellate arguments or submitted evidence that meets 
the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
We conclude that although the Petitioner offered evidence satisfying the high salary or remuneration 
criterion, it does not meet the criteria regarding judging. While it argues and submits evidence for one 
additional criterion on appeal relating to the Beneficiary's performance in a leading or critical role at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), it is unnecessary that we make a decision on this additional ground 
because it cannot numerically meet the required number of criteria. 
As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve the remaining leading or critical role issue. Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 328, 
332 (2022) ( citing INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are not required 
to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); see also 
Matter ofChen, 28 I&N Dec. 676, 677 n.1, 678 (BIA 2023) ( declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 26, 2024 In Re: 32950822 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a data scientist seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that she met the initial evidence requirements for this classification through evidence ofeither 
a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." A 
petitioner can demonstrate that they meet the initial evidence requirements for this immigrant visa 
classification through evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about lesser awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner holds a masters degree in computer engineering, and is currently employed as a medical 
coding analyst while pursuing a doctoral degree in computer science. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to her authorship of scholarly articles in her field and 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field. We agree with the Director's conclusions. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published 
material about her and her work in the field and her original contributions of major significance in her 
field. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she has not established that she 
meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence of published material that is about them and 
relates to their work in their field of endeavor. The material must include the title, date, and author 
information, and must be published in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
1 The Petitioner does not renew on appeal her claim to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (viii), relating to her 
membership in associations in her field which require outstanding achievements of their members and her leading or 
critical roles for organizations having a distinguished reputation. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g.. Matter 
ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 
medium. Also, in compliance with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3), materials in a foreign 
language must be accompanied by a certified English translation. 
In support of her claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submits two articles published on websites with 
her appeal, both ofwhich she asserts were previously submitted with her petition. However, the article 
published on the website www.soup.io was not included with the Petitioner's original filing or with 
her response to either of the two requests for evidence (RFE) issued by the Director. Because the 
Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence, we will not 
consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring all requested evidence 
be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining 
to consider new evidence submitted on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice ofthe required 
evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
Regarding the article published on www.inspirationfeed.com, the Director concluded that while it was 
about the Petitioner, the evidence did not establish that this website qualified as a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. On appeal, the Petitioner repeats information found at the 
bottom of the article in which the website claims "19+ million annual readers." But USCIS need not 
rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. 
D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions 
on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major media). 
Whether a certain medium qualifies under this criterion depends upon factors such as the intended 
audience and its relative circulation, readership, or viewership. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2(B)(l ). Despite the Director's specific request for such evidence, the Petitioner did not provide 
further information concerning this website and its viewership compared to others of its type, and thus 
has not shown it to be a professional, major trade, or other major medium. We therefore agree with 
the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made 
original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For example, a 
petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Initially, we note that while the Petitioner relies upon previously submitted evidence in claiming this 
criterion on appeal, she did not specifically claim this criterion in her previous submissions. 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed this evidence and conclude that it does not establish that the elements 
of this criterion have been met. In her brief, the Petitioner first highlights five of her papers which 
were either published in scholarly journals or presented at scientific conferences in the field of data 
science. She describes the research and implications presented in each of these papers, and refers to 
evidence of the number of times that others in her field have cited these papers in their own published 
work. In addition, she asserts that each of these articles are widely cited (including one paper cited on 
only two occasions) or have been of significance in her field. But the Petitioner does not provide 
evidence to support her statement of the impact or influence of these papers compared to the published 
3 
works of others in her field. Although the number of citations indicates that they have contributed to 
the field to some degree, that information is not sufficient to establish that the papers have been of 
major significance to the overall field of data science. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the reference letters she submitted demonstrate that her contributions 
have been of major significance. 2 Three of those reference letters were written by individuals who 
collaborated with the Petitioner on data mining and pattern recognition research projects several years 
prior to the filing of her petition. For example, Dr. N-D-describes sequential pattern mining, and 
writes that the Petitioner authored "several high-profile papers" in this area. But she does not explain 
why she considers the three papers she identifies to be high profile or provide any level of detail 
regarding their contribution to the field of data science. 
Similarly, H-R-writes about the applications of data mining and pattern recognition in several 
industries and notes that the Petitioner has made "significant scientific contributions" in those areas, 
but does not identify any specific contributions the Petitioner has made or explain how they may have 
influenced the field. Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the 
petitioner's burden of proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), 
affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Another former collaborator, Dr. V-K-, admits that his recommendation is not based on his direct 
observation of the Petitioner, yet goes on to discuss her work in the area of medical billing, declaring 
that she is "an excellent technical healthcare professional who will make important contributions." He 
later states that her work is in use in the healthcare industry, including software applications being 
used by health insurance providers. But given his admitted lack of personal knowledge of this work 
and his anticipation of its ultimate importance, this evidence does little to establish that the Petitioner 
had already made contributions to her field at the time her petition was filed. In addition, his 
statements are not supported with documentary evidence of the creation or implementation of the 
described work. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether a petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that their achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. 
Here, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have 
2 Some of the reference letters mentioned by the Petitioner cannot be found in the record. The Director notified the 
Petitioner in both RFEs that parts of the record appeared to be missing, and provided the names of the writers of letters 
that are in the record. We have reviewed and considered those reference letters that are in the record, including those not 
specifically mentioned in this decision. 
4 
reviewed the entire record and conclude that it does not establish that the Petitioner has the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF R-U-E-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 27, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a jurist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in education. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, in which he 
must meet at least three, he did not show his sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. In addition, 
the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he will continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability and that his entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he has sustained the required acclaim and bas 
risen to the very top of his field, that he will continue to work in his area of expertise, and that he will 
substantially benefit the United States. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
Matter of R-U-E-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claimed his most employment as a professor at the Universidadl I inl l 
Venezuela. 1 Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, awards under 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(i),judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and scholarly 
articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner authored legal 
reference books. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the scholarly 
articles criterion. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the Director's 
findings that the Petitioner satisfied the awards and judging criteria. 
1 See the Petitioner's Form 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, filed concurrently with 
his Form 1-140. 
2 
Matter of R-U-E-
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met this criterion based on the "Medalla Dia Nacional del 
Abogado." In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes 
or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, 
the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Because the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we 
will withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
In his initial cover letter, the Petitioner claimed to have received the following awards: "Medal of 
Soldier Communication," "Grand Order of the Federal District- First Class," "Medal of Honor-First 
Class," "Medal of Honor -Second Class," "Merit of the Watcher," "Military Medal-Oder of the Air 
Force," and "Military Medal -~-------~" Although he submitted several foreign 
language certificates as evidence of his awards, the Petitioner did not provide any English language 
translations. Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation 
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. In addition, the Petitioner did not offer evidence establishing that the military awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the education field. 
In response to the director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner made new claims of awards. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserted that he received the "Medalla Dia Nacional del Abogado" 
(National Lawyer's Day Medal) and the "Orden de la Defensa Nacional" (Order ofNational Defense). 
However, the Petitioner did not provide evidence showing that he received these awards. Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish the claimed facts with unsupported testimonial evidence alone. 
Moreover, the Petitioner offered a screenshot from two websites reflecting that the "Medalla Dia 
Nacional del Abogado" is presented by the I I during the "National 
Day of the Lawyer" in Venezuela. Further, the Petitioner submiy~~ scree:shots from four websites 
regarding the issuance of the "Orden de la Defensa N acional" to I 
and Army General~------~ However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of endeavor, education. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the findings of the Director for this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
Matter of R-U-E-
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner's membership with Ddid not qualify for this criterion. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(ii), the Petitioner must show that membership 
in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
Initially, the Petitioner provided a copJ of his identity card confirming his membership with D. In 
addition, he offered screenshots from_ lcom reflecting the history 
anl backJround ofLJ However, the evidence did not demonstrate the membership requirements 
for As such, the Director requested the constitution or bylaws discussing the membership 
requirements. In response, the Petitioner did not address this issue or submit additional documentation 
for this criterion. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that membership withOrequires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, consistent with 
the regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of spectfication for which classtfication is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion based on judging a thesis and dissertation. 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 5 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he meets this 
criterion, and the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner claimed that he judged theses and dissertations at the "Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela Public Ministry! t and submitted 
foreign language documents without any English language translations. See 8 C.F.R. §103.2(b)(3). 
In addition, the Petitioner asserted that he judged two doctoral theses at the 'I I and I !University" and offered a summary/excerpt translation for one foreign language document 
and no translation for the other. Because the Petitioner did not submit complete and accurate English 
language translations of the documents, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated 
material is accurate and supports his claims. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
Matter of R-U-E-
In addition, the Petitioner claimed that he has been a judge at the "Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela I I Division of Research and Post-Graduate 
Studies" and submitted a partial translation of a foreign language document informing him that he 
"will be part of the Examining Jury" in his role as a "methodological Work Advisor." Likewise, the 
Petitioner asserted that he "was pre-selected as a Candidate to be a judge of thel I 
I I by the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela National Assembly of Judicial Nominations 
Committee" and offered a partial and summary translation of the foreign language documentation. 
Again, the Petitioner did not provide complete and accurate English language translations. 
Furthermore, a petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but 
also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of 
specialization. 6 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he, in fact, participated on the examining 
jury or served as a judge on the judicial disciplinary court rather than being selected to judge. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he participated as a judge of the 
work of others. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner claimed to meet this criterion based on a critical role as an advisor for thel .... ___ ___. 
.__ _________ ....,.... in Venezuela. 7 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate 
that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organizations or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 8 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted his credentials fromc=J reflecting his position as an 
advisor. In addition, he presented a memorandum informing him that he has "been desi nated to form 
part of the assembled team responsible for the Organizational Structure ofthe.__ _____ -----1 
I IProject." Further, the Petitioner provided an organizational chart showing that the 
falls below the "Supreme Court of Justice." 
Although the evidence indicates his role as an advisor, the Petitioner did not establish that his 
performance was critical to theD overall. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not show if he ever 
completed the organizational structure project, and how it ultimately contributed to the success or 
standing ofc=] Moreover, while the organizational chart reflects the overall hierarchy, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate how he significantly impacted the□ as his role as an advisor. Here, the 
Petitioner's evidence does not signify an essential role to 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 Ibe Petitioner iuitiaJJv claimed eligibility for this criterion based on leading and critical roles for the0 the ._I __ _. I I university," and the "Government ofl I" As evidence of his roles, he 
submitted foreign language documents without any English language translations. See 8 C.F.R. § I 03~3). Moreover, 
in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner argued his eligibility for only a critical role with thel__J 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
Matter of R-U-E-
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that D enjoys a distinguished reputation. 9 The 
Petitioner provided a screenshot indicating that "[ i ]n August 1999, the National Constitutional 
Assembly (ANC) declared a judicial emergency to reform the highly discredited judiciary" and "[b ]y 
the end of the year, 200 judges had been fired, mostly for corruption." Moreover, the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from websites regarding the mission, vision, and regulations o~ Further, 
while the Petitioner presented screenshots reporting on meetings and events bye=] the record does 
not reflect thatD garnered a distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory criterion. Here, 
the evidence relates to the intended function and operation of Dwithout establishing its standing or 
prommence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 10 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, the 
petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). Here, 
that burden has not been met. 
9 Id. at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionmy definition of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence). 
10 As the Petitioner had not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act we need not 
consider whether he seeks to enter the United States to continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, and whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
6 
Matter of R-U-E-
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of R-U-E-, ID# 3936097 (AAO Aug. 27, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF T-U-LLC Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: AUG. 27, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a record label, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Beneficiary had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief asserting that the Beneficiary 
fulfills at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate that a beneficiary has a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). Alternatively, a petitioner must provide documentation 
for an individual that meets at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain 
media). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if 
it is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to a 
beneficiary's occupation. 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Beneficiary serves in the position of creative director for the Petitioner in New York. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Beneficiary met the leading 
or critical role and high salary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix), respectively. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary also meets the awards, membership, published 
material, judging, and original contributions criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v). Upon review, we 
conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary's prizes or awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
2 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
including, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented evidence that the Beneficiary and his 
coworkers received three Clio Awards for creativity in advertising or sports: gold in the "Experiential" 
category of the I I medium (2014 ), bronze in the "Experiential" category of the I I 
I O O I medmm (2014), and silver in the "Commercials 
category of the I I medium (2016). 3 While the record includes inform~a-t-io_n_a_b_o_u_t-th_e_C_l-io_A_w_a_r_d~s 
from its website and Wikipedia, and two articles in Forbes ~ 12015 and I I 2017) 
identifying multiple "Grand Clio" winners as those receiving "the biggest prize," the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that the Beneficiary's aforementioned gold, silver, and bronze awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. 4 
In addition, the record indicates that the Beneficiary and his colleagues' entries were named as a 
"finalist" in the category at the 2014 Cannes Lions International Festival of 
Creativity, the~_~category at the 2014 New York Festivals International Advertising Competition, 
and the 2014 "Cannes Young Lions" film competition (Germany). With the appeal, the Petitioner 
provides coverage from Business-Standard.com D 2017) and CBSnews.com Q 2018) 
describing Cannes Lions as "the Oscars of advertising," but these articles do not discuss ThtC I 
Lions" film competition, the Beneficiary's creative work, or the significance of being recognized as a 
"finalist." While the aforementioned competitions included participants from multiple nations, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Beneficiary's standing as a 
"finalist" constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in his 
field. 5 
Furthermore, the Beneficiary and his coworkers' advertising projects received a prize for "distinction" 
in the I ~gory at the 2014 Art Directors Club (Germany) competition for their I I I ~---- advertisement. This I O I advertisement was also selected for a Favorite 
Website Award (FWA) "of the day" by TheFWA.com and for "Site of the week" by Awwwards.com. 
Additionally, the record shows that the Beneficiary and two others shared a silver trophy at the 2011 
Art Directors Club Junior Competition. Moreover, he was among hundreds of individuals who 
received an Applied Arts Student Award in 2011. Although the Petitioner provided screenshots and 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 Clio Awards include six recognition programs for creative businesses in "advertising, sports, fashion, music, 
enteitainment, and health." See https://clios.com/about, copy incorporated into the record of proceedings. For example, 
in 2014, the Clio Awards recognized 1,215 advertising entries, 199 spolts entries, 174 fashion entries, 372 entertainment 
entries, and 126 health entries. In addition, the record indicates that multiple gold, silver, and bronze Clio awards are 
presented in each specific category. 
4 The coverage in Forbes may demonstrate that the small number of"Grand Clio" prizes are nationally recognized, but the 
Beneficiary was not a "Grand Clio" recipient. Rather, the Beneficiary was among thousands who annually receive a gold, 
silver, or bronze Clio award. 
5 The issue here is not the national or international scope of the Beneficiary's competitions, but rather whether his specific 
awards are "nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field." 
3 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
other information from the competitions' organizers regarding these awards, it did not offer sufficient 
evidence of their national or international recognition for excellence in the field. For instance, the 
screenshot from Applied Arts claimed that "[t]he student winners chosen by our judges are definitely 
up-and-comers worth keeping an eye out for," but such information is insufficient to demonstrate that 
the aforementioned award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence 
in the field. The Petitioner has not established therefore that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on membership with the XH 
Collective (XHC) and the One Club for Art and Copy (OCAC). In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 6 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted letters from XHC and OCAC 
identifying the Beneficiary as a member and screenshots from the associations' websites. Although 
the screenshots relate to the background and history of XHC and OCAC, the Petitioner did not provide 
their membership requirements, so as to demonstrate that they require outstanding achievements, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in the field consistent with the regulation at 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). As such, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary fulfills this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains various screenshots that mention .__ ________ ~_....., a portfolio site 
created by the Beneficiary and .__ ______ _. to promote their work. These screenshots 
fromCreativity-online.com, AdWeek.com, AdRants.com, MediaBistro.com, Businesslnsider.com, 
www.ddb.fr, and www.page-online.de did not include a full copy of the articles discussing the 
Beneficiary's work. Moreover, the authors of the aforementioned material were not identified, nor 
has the Petitioner presented comparative statistics or other evidence indicating that these websites' 
readership elevates them to major media relative to other publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner presented screenshots about branding, marketing, and design projects for 
various companies, organizations, and products, such as the National Basketball Association (NBA), 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Vodafone, Mercedes Benz, and Riot Raki, rather than published material about the Beneficiary. 7 
Articles that are not about a beneficiary do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 8 In fact, many of these screenshots never mention the 
Beneficiary, let alone reflect published material about him. Finally, the record does not show that any 
of the remaining articles submitted for this criterion were about the Beneficiary, appeared in major media, 
or identified an author. For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary 
meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
For this criterion, the Petitioner submitted an August 2014 letter from the office manager for "Miami 
Ad School Europe inl I" Germany, stating in full: "Herewith confirm that [the Beneficiary] 
hold [sic] several lectures at Miami Ad School Europe and judged as well the quarterly exhibitions." 
In addition, the record includes an undated letter from ~----___.cofounder of 1 I 
inl t Russia, asserting that she is "teaching the creative talents of Russia at MADS School."9 
I I indicated that in her position at MADS School, she "founded the MADS Award that 
honors the best work among the young talents. To do that I gather the best creatives in our industry 
and judge their work on a yearly routine. On this regard I confirm that [the Beneficiary] has judged 
the MADS award in 2013."10 
The aforementioned letters, however, did not discuss whose work the Beneficiary judged or the 
specific projects he evaluated. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not offer information about the MADS 
School, its academic programs, or the area of focus for the MADS A ward program. Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary's activities with MADS School and 
Miami Ad School Europe constituted his participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the field, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
7 We acknowledge that several of the news outlets covering these projects are major media (such as USA Today and Dailv 
Mail), but their material was not about the Beneficiary. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (finding that the published material should be about the 
Beneficiary relating to his work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom he or 
she is associated). 
9 Her letterhead, however, is not from the MADS School. 
10 The record also contains a letter prepared byl I, an associate professor at the School of the Art Institute of I pffering "an independent evaluation of the professional credentials" of the Beneficiary. He contends that the 
Beneficiary was selected to serve as a judge for Miami Ad School Europe quarterly exhibitions and the MADS Awards, 
but does identity the particular evidence upon which his conclusions are based. 
5 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that the beneficiary has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field.11 For example, a petitioner may show that a 
beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
Here, we will address the Petitioner's arguments on appeal and determine whether the Beneficiary has 
demonstrated original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary's I campaign for the NBA ' 
campaign for Vodafone, I I campaign for Mercedes Benz, .__ _____ __. m1trnt1ve, I !artificial intelligence art project, and I !data marketplace project represent 
artistic contributions of major significance in his field. 12 In support of this claim, the Petitioner points 
to awards that these campaigns received, media coverage relating to the Beneficiary's advertising 
projects, and letters of support from others in the field discussing his work. 
With respect to awards received by creative projects undertaken by the Beneficiary and his colleagues, 
the Petitioner has not shown that these awards reflect that his advertising work has risen to the level 
of major significance in the field consistent with this regulatory criterion. As discussed under the 
awards criterion, the Petitioner did not establish the national or international recognition or 
significance of the Beneficiary's awards in the field. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown, for 
example, the substantial impact the Beneficiary's advertisements and digital media work have had in 
the greater field or explained how they are otherwise majorly significant in the creative direction field. 
Regarding media coverage of the Beneficiary and his colleagues' advertising projects, the Petitioner 
provided various articles describing the NBA I ~" Vodafone 'I ~" and Mercedes Benz I I commercials. The Petitioner, however, has not shown that the Beneficiary's creative 
direction work on these projects has received attention from the press in a manner indicative of major 
significance in the field. For example, al 12016 article in USA Today discussed how the NBA 
released a new commercial to promote its Saturday night games. This article did not mention the 
Beneficiary or discuss how his specific work on that commercial represents an original contribution 
of major significance in the field of creative direction. Likewise, the record includes a I I 2016 
article from ShootOnline.com entitled "Top Spot of the Week: NBA's I I Directed bye=] 
,__ __ ___,I While this article has a "credits" section that listed the Beneficiary among more than 25 
other contributing staff: it did not speak to his particular art direction work or explain its major 
significance in the field. The record contains additional articles showing that the Beneficiary's 
advertising and promotional projects have garnered media attention, but these articles did not 
demonstrate that his original work has widely influenced others in the advertising industry or 
otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in the creative direction field. 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
12 While the Beneficiary worked on these adveitising campaigns, we note that many other staff also contributed to these 
projects. For example, 13 other employees rrom the Petitioner shared the NBA I I campaign Clio Sports silver 
award with the Beneficiary in 2016. 
6 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
As farther evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner asserts that letters written on the Beneficiary's 
behalf affirm "the significance and originality of his work." Although these letters confirmed his work 
on advertising projects and praised his talents and abilities, they did not explain or indicate how his 
creative work rises to the level of original contributions of major significance in the field. 13 For 
instance, I I executive creative director for I I a diJital creative 
agency, noted that he tutored the Beneficiary "in his final quarter at Miami Ad School in I 
He farther stated: "I vouch for his superb skills in art direction and conceptual thinking. I'm following 
his work ever since and love his personal work as well as his well thought campaigns for big brands 
such as Mercedes Benz or Vodafone." Whilel I mentioned the Beneficiary's advertising 
projects for clients such as Mercedes Benz and Vodafone, he did not provide specific examples of how 
the Beneficiary's work on their campaigns has widely affected the industry or has otherwise risen to 
the level of contributions of major significance in the creative direction field. 
In addition,~-------~ managing director ofl la German communication agency, 
asserted that the Beneficiary's "ability to craft storytelling is uniquely persuasive and effective. His 
use of digital media in his campaigns is exquisite and always well crafted. Moreover, he is incredibly 
adept at the difficult task of cross-culture advertising." Here,~------~ did not articulate 
the significance of the Beneficiary's work in the greater field. Further, having a diverse, unique, or 
special skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself Rather, the record must be 
supported by evidence that the Beneficiary has already used those skills and abilities to impact the 
field at a significant level, which has not been shown. 
Furthermore, with regard to the Beneficiary's i I' project, I I I, managing director 
of I I an advertising agency, stated that the Beneficiary and his partner in the Y P 
Collective experimented with the concept of using data as a modem-day currency. 
explained that "they convinced the shop-owner of an exclusive high-fashion boutique in ~--~to 
let them do a pop-up in his premium foot-trafficked shop. They created the first supermarket in the 
world where customers paid for groceries with I I data. It was calledl I' :While this 
project garnered media attention for its novelty, the record does not show thatl lexpanded 
to other stores in Germany or elsewhere, or otherwise had a meaningful impact to the overall field. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's 'I I' initiative and I I artificial intelligence 
art project, the remaining letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record 
include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate that his work on these projects has been 
considered to be of major significance in the field ofcreative direction. The language of this regulatory 
criterion requires that the Beneficiary's original contributions be "of major significance in the field" 
rather than mainly affecting his employers or clients. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate 
her impact in the field as a whole). Without sufficient evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes 
original contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
13 While we discuss a sampling ofletters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
7 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that that the Petitioner had demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility under this 
criterion. For the reasons outlined below, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient 
documentary evidence showing that the Beneficiary meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiar has erformed in a leadin or critical role for its 
organization~-------------------------~ and TEDxMunster. 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a beneficiary is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 14 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a beneficiary has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a beneficiary's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is 
or was critical. 15 
While the record includes letters of support from the above organizations discussing the Beneficiary's 
work, these letters do not establish that he held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying his essential roles to the organizations.16 For instance, I~----.====;,' 
TEDxMunster licensee and co-orsanizer, stated: "We hereby confirm the parti i I I, the Beneficiary], andl Ion sta e at TEDxMunster 
on 2014 with their TEDx Talk .__ ________________ _. ,,, 
.__ ____ _. statement, however, did not discuss how the Beneficiary's role was leading or critical 
or critical for TEDxMunster. 
In additionJ I the Petitioner's chief operating officer, stated that in his position as creative 
director, the Beneficiary "is responsible for overseeing integrated advertising campaigns from 
conception to completion. This requires him to make critical decisions about ~he content tone, and 
voice of brand messaging for our artists across multiple mediums .... " While[ !indicated 
that the Beneficiary has oversight responsibilities for certain advertising campaigns, he did not explain 
how the Beneficiary's role is leading or critical to the company overall. 
Furthermore, I I chief executive officer, I I JI asserted that he met the Beneficiary "in 2010 when he interned at I I ~and that the Beneficiary "stood out from the other interns in terms of motivation and skill." 
lr===~-.lfurther noted that the Beneficiary "worked on brands such as Ariel and successfully helped 
pitch for clients such as the Coca Cola owned energy drink " but the record does not show that 
the Beneficiary's intern position was leading or critical for 
14 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
is Id. .__ _________ __. 
16 Id. (stating that letters rrom individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of a beneficiary's leading or critical 
role can be particularly helpful in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative 
information that specifically addresses how the role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
17! Is letter explains that "TEDx is a program oflocal, self-organized events that bring people together to share 
a TED-like experience." "TED talks" focus on "Technology, Entertainment and Design." 
8 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Moreover! I former creative director atl L stated: "[The Beneficiar worked 
~team on the international Mercedes Benzi !account -rnostl on and 
L___J campaigns. I worked closely with him and his creative partner~------~and 
supervised his development." I lforther indicated that the Beneficiary "constantly tried to 
push the boundaries of Mercedes Benz brand communication" while working on that account, b~ 
statements are not sufficient to show that the Beneficiary's role was leading or critical role forL_J I !overall. 
Although the aforementioned letters confirmed the Beneficiary's employment and discussed his work 
on various projects, they did not contain detailed, probative information demonstrating the specific 
nature and outcomes of his roles with the respective businesses. Furthermore, the remaining letters 
discussing the Beneficiary's work forl land I I did not explain how his 
positions were leading compared to the other creative staff working for those organizations, nor did 
they indicate that the Beneficiary's creative roles were of significant importance for the companies' 
success or standing in the industry so as to demonstrate a critical role. 
Finally, this regulatory criterion also requires that a beneficiary perform in a role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation.18 While the record contains cornpan] information 
from the websites of the Petitioner's sister company, I 11 J I I I andl I this self-promotional documentation is not sufficient to demonstrate that 
these organizations have a distinguished reputation. Moreover, as discussed under the awards 
criterion, although the Petitioner presented evidence of the Beneficiary's companies' receipt of various 
awards, he did not sufficiently demonstrate their significance or relevance. Here, the Petitioner did 
not submit sufficient evidence portraying the aforementioned organizations' standing in the field. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Although the Director found that the Petitioner also meets this criterion, the record does not support 
that conclusion. Therefore, for the reasons discussed below, the Director's determination on this issue 
will be withdrawn. 
The Petitioner presented a July 2017 letter stating that the Beneficiary's "annual base salary is 
$150,000" and pay statements reflecting his earnings inl I In addition, the record 
includes a screenshot from Salary.corn showing that the median salary for creative director is 
$116,137.19 The Petitioner, however, must submit evidence showing that the Beneficiary has earned 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in his field and not just a salary 
that falls in the top half of his field. Without information comparing the Beneficiary's earnings to 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 ( defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition 
of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
19 This screenshot, however, did not identify the geographic region from where this salary information was collected. 
9 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
high salaries of creative directors in the~I ---~I metropolitan area, the Petitioner has not established 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Beneficiary is not eligible because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence 
of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, 
we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a finding that the Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance and recognition of the Beneficiary's work are 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition 
proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
10 
Matter ofT-U-LLC 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799,806 (AAO 
2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofT-U-LLC, ID# 3818208 (AAO Aug. 27, 2019) 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9899447 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. 1 The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider and a motion to reopen. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
1 See In Re: 4899729 (Dec. 11, 2019). 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In dismissing his appeal, we also determined 
that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the criteria. 2 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a){l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief mirroring the 
same, previous arguments he made on appeal without demonstrating how we improperly adjudicated 
his appeal or incorrectly applied law or policy. In fact, besides the brief's introductory paragraph, the 
motion brief is identical to the appeal brief, without any mention or discussion of our decision 
dismissing the appeal. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing that we erred as a matter of 
law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our 
decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider 
is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by 
generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
As he did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed his appeal, the Petitioner did not establish 
that he meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will deny his motion to 
reconsider. 
C. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must state new facts 
and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reopen must state 
new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). The regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) does not define what constitutes a "new" fact, nor does it mirror the Board of 
Immigration Appeals' (the Board) definition of "new" at 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(c)(1) (stating that a motion 
2 Since we concluded that the Petitioner did demonstrate that he satisfied four claimed criteria, we reserved a determination 
on two other criteria, as he was unable to fulfill at least three. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach). 
2 
to reopen will not be granted unless the evidence "was not available and could not have been 
discovered or presented at the former hearing"). Unlike the Board regulation, we do not require the 
evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or undiscoverable. Instead, we interpret 
"new facts" to mean facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and that have not been 
previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original petition. Reasserting previously 
stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute "new facts." 
On motion, the Petitioner does not present new facts, supported by documentary evidence. Instead, 
as discussed above, the Petitioner mirrors arguments made in his previous appeal. Accordingly, we 
will deny his motion to reopen. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed his appeal based on the record before us, 
nor does he support the motion with new facts and evidence, establishing that he fulfilled at least three 
of the evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10065637 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in information technology . See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the decision and 
remand the matter to the Director. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At initial filing, the Petitioner did not claim to have received a major, internationally recognized award 
under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). Instead, the Petitioner indicated eligibility for seven of the ten alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Subsequently, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), informing the Petitioner, in part, that 
he satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and 
high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Specifically, the Director stated that "[s]ufficient evidence 
has been submitted to establish, by the plain language of the regulation, that [these criteria have] been 
met." In addition, the Director notified the Petitioner that he may submit additional evidence to fulfill 
the other five claimed criteria. 
In the Director's decision denying the petition, he determined that the Petitioner met two other criteria, 
scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Further, the Director concluded and explained why the Petitioner did not satisfy 
the criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
and original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Although he indicated in the RFE that the 
Petitioner satisfied the published material and high salary criteria, the Director did not consider them 
in determining whether the Petitioner fulfilled at least three of the evidentiary criteria, nor did he 
explain why the Petitioner did not meet them in his final decision. 
Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to determine whether the Petitioner satisfies 
the published material and high salary criteria. If, after considering all of the claimed alternate 
regulatory criteria, the Director concludes that the Petitioner meets at least three criteria, then the 
Director must evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. See 
2 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115. Furthermore, if the Director concludes that the Petitioner does not fulfill 
any additional criteria, then he must explain his determination. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Director did not consider the Petitioner's eligibility relating to two of the evidentiary criteria. As 
such, we will remand the matter for further consideration of the record, including claims and 
documentation submitted on appeal, and entry of a new decision.1 
ORDER: The decision of the Director, Nebraska Service Center, is withdrawn. The matter is 
remanded to the Director, Nebraska Service Center, for further proceedings consistent 
with the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision, which, if adverse, shall 
be certified to us for review. 
1 We have the authority to withdraw a decision and remand the case for further action, with an order that it be certified 
back to us if the new decision is adverse to the affected party. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0087, Certification 
of Decisions to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) 4 (July 2, 2013), https://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda, 
Adjudicator's Field Manual 3.5(c), 10.18(a)(3), https://www.uscis.gov/ilink. This order is not meant to compel approval 
of the remanded case, but is designed to preserve the affected party's ability to seek appellate review without payment of 
a second appeal fee. Id. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19547559 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability in biophysics and biomedicine . See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
In a decision dated September 11, 2019, the Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the 
petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which 
he must meet at least three. On July 21, 2020, we dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The Petitioner 
subsequently filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California, which granted the Petitioner's motion for summary judgment, and remanded for further 
proceedings consistent with their o:inion. I I I , I Specifically, the Court concluded that 
the record established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements and remanded 
the matter to us to evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 
Upon consideration of the Court's opinion and the arguments and evidence in the record of proceeding, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Procedural History 
The Petitioner indicates he is the founder and chief executive officer of-I ______ I where his 
work involves "innovating with technical applications across Biophysics and Biomedicine." Because 
the Petitioner concedes that he has not received a major, internationally recognized award, he must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserted that he met five criteria, including through the submission of 
comparable evidence. In our prior decision we determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
he meets the criteria related to awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published materials under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). As we 
concluded that the Petitioner was unable to fulfill at least three criteria, we reserved a determination 
on the criteria related to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and did not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
The Court concluded that we erred in our determination, finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence 
sufficient to establish that he meets the criteria relating to awards, published materials, and original 
contributions. The Court found no error in our determination that the Petitioner did not meet his 
burden to demonstrate that he may use comparable evidence to demonstrate his eligibility.1 Further, 
1 In addition, the Court determined that because the Petitioner did not contest on appeal the Director's determination that 
he did not establish that he meets the criterion related to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) it would not consider the 
Petitioner's argument on this issue. 
2 
the Court analyzed the documentation submitted under the criteria related to scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), finding that the 
Petitioner met the scholarly articles criterion but did not satisfy the leading or critical role criterion. 
In sum, the Court concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled step one of the Kazarian framework because 
he fulfilled the regulatory requirements of four criteria. The Court remanded the case to us to evaluate 
the totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. 2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 Accordingly, we have analyzed the record in its entirety, which includes other relevant evidence 
such as the Petitioner's scholarly articles and leading or critical role. In this matter, we determine that 
the Petitioner has demonstrated his eligibility. 
In the present matter, the Petitioner has submitted extensive documentation of his achievements in the 
biophysics and biomedicine fields and has demonstrated a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). The evidence provided, in the 
aggregate, is sufiicient to demonstrate the Petitioner's sustained national and international acclaim as 
a biophysics and biomedicine researcher, scientist, and clinician, and as a biophysicist chief executive 
officer, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. In addition, the 
submitted documentation shows that the Petitioner is among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. The Petitioner has authored a substantial number of articles in 
distinguished journals and conference proceedings that have garnered a large number of citations, some 
of which apply and build upon his work, for instance, in the area ot1 I I I See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121 (citations may be relevant to the final merits 
determination of whether an individual is at the very top of the field). 4 Further, the Petitioner 
submitted reference letters from experts in the field, detailing his specific contributions and explaining 
how those contributions are of major significance in his field. For example,! Jin 
discussing examples of the Petitioner's specific achievements and their impact on the field, stated that 
the Petitioner's patente~ I obtained "the first positive result in a relevant I I 
model" and his work in._ ____ __.f "is now a recognized approach at research agencies both in the 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing that 
objectively meeting the regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 Id. (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety 
to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the 
immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner submitted a user profile from Research Gate at the time of filing, indicating that his 68 publications had 
been cited 2,204 times in total. Within his response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided a 
citation summary from Google Scholar showing 2,886 total citations. 
3 
E.U. and the U.S." While we need not accept unsupported conclusory assertions, 5 the evidence of 
record, including evidence not discussed in this decision, supports these conclusions. 
Moreover, the record contains articles about the Petitioner relating to his work in the field that appeared 
in professional publications dedicated to the business technology or biometrics industry. Given the 
Petitioner's area of claimed extraordinary ability, being featured in such publications with references 
such as~-----------------------------~' is indicative 
of his acclaim. Further, the record shows that in his role as chief executive officer of the start-up I khe Petitioner's patents have resulted in the company being awarded a relatively high 
amount of venture capital investment froml l based on the importance of his work 
in the field as the inventor of the I I identity validation technology. Similarly, as chief 
integration officer at the I I, the Petitioner's patents 
resulted in a significant amount of angel investor and venture capital fonding for its I ~ handheld 
health monitoring device and its in-homel [test system, with the latter obtaining approval 
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and entering the market. We find that the relatively high 
fonding amounts based on the importance of the Petitioner's past and ongoing work in the field, from 
entities that the record indicates have a history of fonding startups that have achieved success, is also 
evidence of his acclaim. 
In light of the evidence discussed above and other corroborating evidence of record, the Petitioner's 
achievements are commensurate with sustained national and international acclaim at the very top of his 
field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted evidence qualifying under at least three of the ten categories of evidence 
and established a "level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the[ir] field of endeavor" and "sustained national or international acclaim." 
The Petitioner's achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise and he has established 
that he seeks to continue working in the same field in the United States. The Petitioner has shown that 
his entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. He therefore 
qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
5 See 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2024 In Re: 32863664 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior brand manager in the wine industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either 
through her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by meeting at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on 
appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, a 
petitioner must establish that: (1) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and 
their achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (2) they seek 
to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and (3) their entry 
will offer substantial prospective benefits to the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to "that small percentage who have risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulations set forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition oftheir achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If such evidence 
is unavailable, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation to demonstrate that they 
meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4 383, 393 (5th Cir. 2022) (upholding USCIS' two-step review process as 
"consistent with the governing statute and regulation"). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this classification based on extraordinary ability in the areas of 
viticulture and wine branding and marketing. The record reflects that she has a bachelor's degree in 
viticulture and enology from the and an MBA from I I 
I I Between 2008 and 2018, she worked as an assistant wine maker, associate wine maker, 
and head of product for a vineyard located in India. At the time of filing, the Petitioner was employed 
as a senior brand manager for a California-based vineyard in 0-1 nonimmigrant status. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She provided evidence relating to seven of the ten criteria 
and requested that the Director consider comparable evidence of her eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner provided evidence of published materials about her and 
her work in professional or major trade publications or other major media and therefore found she 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record supports the Director's determination. 
However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner provided insufficient evidence that she has 
received lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field; obtained 
membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements in the field; made original 
contributions ofmajor significance in her field; displayed her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
performed in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations; and commanded 
a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in related to others in the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), and (vii)-(ix). The Director declined to consider the Petitioner's submission 
of "comparable evidence" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), noting that she did not meet her burden to 
explain why the regulatory criteria are not readily applicable to her occupation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the Director did not consider the totality ofthe evidence she submitted 
in support of the petition or adequately explain why the additional evidence and explanations she 
provided in response to a request for evidence (RFE) were deemed insufficient. She maintains that 
she meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and is otherwise eligible for 
the requested classification. 
Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case because the 
Director's decision is insufficient for review. Although the Director addressed all seven claimed 
criteria in the decision, the decision does not acknowledge or discuss any evidence or arguments the 
Petitioner provided in response to the RFE with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v) 
2 
and (viii). In fact, in comparing the RFE and the final decision, the Director's discussion of these 
three criteria is identical. The Director's failure to address the Petitioner's RFE response is clear error. 
We further note that both the RFE and the decision contain few specific references to the evidence 
submitted or the Petitioner's explanation of why the evidence demonstrates her eligibility under the 
claimed criteria. For example, the Director did not acknowledge the claims the Petitioner articulated 
with respect to the awards criterion, her claimed original contributions, or her contentions regarding 
the significance of those contributions. The RFE and decision make several general observations that 
the Petitioner submitted evidence derived from "Wikipedia, web portals, domains, biogs, [ and] social 
media" and concluded that such evidence carries "no evidentiary weight." However, the record does 
not support the Director's determination that the Petitioner relied significantly on evidence from 
"unreliable" sources as stated. Finally, the Director generally dismissed other materials in the record 
as "unsourced" or "illegible," but, as noted by the Petitioner on appeal, did not describe that evidence 
with sufficient specificity to identify it, leaving uncertainty as to what evidence was deemed 
insufficient. 
An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision 
does not sufficiently address the evidence submitted with the petition and in response to the RFE, 
particularly with respect to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v) and (viii), we will remand the 
matter. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. The Director should also review the Petitioner's 
appellate brief, which further discusses the previously submitted evidence submitted in support of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as the supplemental evidence submitted on 
appeal. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
the new decision should evaluate, based on the totality of the evidence in the record, whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2024 In Re: 33253989 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an omakase chef, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a pet1t10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IT. ANALYSTS 
The Petitioner explains that "omakase is a type offormal Japanese dining" in which, rather than selecting 
items from a menu, diners leave the meal entirely to the chef's discretion. The Petitioner, currently 
classified as an E-2 nonimmigrant treaty investor, has operated three restaurants in California. His first 
restaurant operated inl Ifrom 2005 to 2007, followed by a restaurant inl Ifrom 2007 to 2018. 
Since 2019, he has operated an omakase sushi restaurant in I I The Petitioner asserted that his 
latest restaurant "has been ranked among the top 100 restaurants in the U.S. and among the top 25 
omakase dining experiences in the U.S. in The Petitioner's restaurant was included in the Michelin 
Guide in 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Petitioner also claimed to have submitted comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to a leading or critical role. On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all five claimed criteria and that he has submitted 
comparable evidence. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had established that he performs in a 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation, satisfying 
the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record establishes the prestige of a listing in the 
Michelin Guide, indicating that the Petitioner's restaurant has a distinguished reputation. As the owner 
and chef of the restaurant, the Petitioner performs in a leading role for the establishment. 
1 The record indicates that anonymous evaluators dine at candidate restaurants, and that listed restaurants receive between 
zero and three stars. The Petitioner's restaurant did not receive any stars in the Guide's three-star rating system, but the 
Petitioner asse1ted that "earning a mention in the guide is an honor in itself." 
2 
We also conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), by 
submitting evidence that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. The Director's conclusion that the Petitioner had not satisfied 
this requirement rested in part on the conclusion that the Petitioner owned several restaurants at the 
time of filing. But the record does not support this conclusion. The Petitioner's resume lists his 
ownership of three restaurants, but in succession rather than all at once. His current restaurant is his 
only documented source of income. Therefore, the record demonstrates that the Petitioner has met 
this criterion as well. 
We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that his I Irestaurant's inclusion in lists published by several 
newspapers and websites amount to his receipt of qualifying prizes and awards. The user-review site 
Yelp ranked the Petitioner's restaurant at numberOon its list of the "Top 100 US Restaurants 
While the Yelp list is national, the other published lists are limited to restaurants in I I 
California. For example, thel IRegister ranked the Petitioner's restaurant ninth on its list 
of 10 best new restaurants of the year" in 2019. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted any evidence to show that he had received 
any identified prizes or awards relating to, or arising from, his restaurant's various listings. On appeal, 
the Petitioner contends that his restaurant's listing in the prestigious Michelin Guide should be considered 
a qualifying prize or award, or as comparable evidence of one. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a prize or award as a result 
of his restaurant's Guide listing, or that the listing itself constitutes a prize or award. For us to consider 
the Guide listing as being comparable to a prize or award, the burden is on the Petitioner to establish that 
the criterion does not readily apply to his occupation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)( 4). A general unsupported 
assertion that a particular evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation is not 
probative. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Seeking to establish the prestige of a restaurant critic who had praised the Petitioner's restaurant, the 
Petitioner submitted evidence showing that the critic received James Beard Awards. But the Petitioner's 
materials also indicate that there is a "Restaurant and Chef"category ofJames Beard Awards, "[k]nown 
as the 'Oscars ofthe food world."' Because the Petitioner submitted evidence indicating that recognized 
awards exist in his occupation, in the absence of further documentation, we would not consider evidence 
such as the Michelin Guide listing to be comparable to prizes or awards. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 
The Petitioner contended that his restaurant's inclusion in the Michelin Guide satisfies this criterion, 
because only a select few restaurants receive entries in the Guide. Materials from Michelin in the record 
do not indicate that Guide-listed establishments, or their owners or chefs, are members of any association 
as a result of their inclusion in the Guide. 
The Director concluded that "the inclusion ofa restaurant in an eating guide is not considered membership 
in an association," and that the Petitioner had not established that the restaurant's inclusion in the Guide 
resulted from the Petitioner's outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asks that we consider his restaurant's listing in the Michelin Guide "as other 
comparable evidence" relative to membership in an association, because "[i]nclusion in the Michelin 
Guide is akin to ... gaining membership in an elite, highly selective group." As above, for us to consider 
the Guide listing as comparable evidence to membership in an association, the Petitioner must establish 
that the criterion does not readily apply to his occupation. The Petitioner, on appeal, does not explain 
how, or even directly assert that, the criterion does not readily apply to chefs in general or to omakase 
chefs in particular. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is major media, relevant factors include the relative 
circulation, readership, or viewership. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner initially submitted articles and "best of'' lists from several local _______
I -area publications, and showed that the online review platform Yelp included the Petitioner's 
restaurant in two annual national "best of'' listings. The Petitioner stated that "the information on 
readership and reach attached with each article" demonstrated that the submitted materials appeared in 
major media. 
Those materials describe local media. For instance, according to the newspaper's own website, "[t]he 
____ Register is ... focused on serving I I and helping it thrive." Information 
from the Eater website refers to "23 city sites tracking local dining scenes." Material about the 
Petitioner's restaurant appeared on one of those city sitesJ I Many of the articles are local "best 
of'' lists, which tends to emphasize the local focus ofthe publications. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner's evidence did not "establish the 
major media status of these publications." In response, the Petitioner submitted web traffic statistics for 
some of the websites. The submitted information shows that Yelp receives hundreds of millions ofvisits 
per month. The Petitioner's restaurant ranked at in "Yelp's Top 100 US Restaurants The 
article does not provide the author credit required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), either for the article 
4 
overall or for the twelve sentences about the Petitioner and his restaurant. Likewise, the Petitioner's 
Michelin Guide entry, not initially claimed as major media, lacks the required author credit. The 
Petitioner's Guide entry has received due weight and consideration elsewhere in our decision. 
The Petitioner submitted a SimilarWeb printout showing that the website for the I IRegister 
receives over three million visits per month. The printout indicates that no data is available for "Monthly 
Unique Visitors," and thus the figure provided does not distinguish between repeat and unique visitors. 
Therefore, the total number ofmonthly visits is not necessarily a reliable indicator ofthe number ofpeople 
visiting the site, and thus of the newspaper's online circulation. The SimilarWeb printout describes the 
same local focus as the Register claims on its own website, and gives the Register a "Global rank" of 
#23,289; "Country rank" of #4,617 in the United States; and "Industry rank" of #2,235 among "News 
and Media." The burden is on the Petitioner to establish that these figures establish that the Register 
qualifies as major media. The SimilarWeb printout provides readership figures comparing the Register 
to four other California newspaper websites, and the Register ranks fourth, below the Sacramento Bee 
and the Mercury News, and less than a tenth of the readership ofthe Los Angeles Times. 
In denying the petition, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not adequately established that the 
published materials appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Register's website "is online media therefore, it is reached by 
people all over the globe who might have interest in whatever they are reporting and who have internet 
access." The relevant information is how many people do read a particular online newspaper, rather than 
how many people could do so. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ), which 
contemplates "relative circulation [or] readership." 
The Petitioner states: "In the context of internet standards, determining what constitutes 'major media' 
involves evaluating several critical factors that distinguish significant digital platforms from smaller, 
niche, or less influential sources. These include reach, influence, credibility, professional standards, and 
more." The Petitioner cites no authoritative source for this proposed standard of"what constitutes 'major 
media"' in an online context. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
5 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "The beneficiary intends to work as a Chef in the field ofCulinary 
Arts." On appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director's description "is incorrect" because "the 
beneficiary is known for and has received critical acclaim specifically as a [sic] OMAKASE CHEF," "a 
highly specialized form of Japanese cuisine," "not as a general Chef in the whole broad field of culinary 
arts." The Petitioner contends that "equating the Beneficiary's specialized role to that of a general chef 
undermines the distinct and advanced talent involved." In such a case, the burden is on the Petitioner to 
establish extraordinary ability not only as a chef, but as an omakase chef. The level of specialization of 
his stated occupation is not, itself, an indication of extraordinary ability or of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner's own evidence is inconsistent in terms of distinguishing omakase chefs from 
other chefs. Much of the Petitioner's own evidence relates to the Petitioner in the context of all chefs, 
rather than omakase chefs. For example, the Petitioner submitted Department ofLabor salary information 
about "executive chefs," rather than "omakase chefs." Perhaps most significantly, the Michelin Guide 
does not limit its listings to omakase chefs. The Petitioner has not established that the Director's broader 
reference to "Culinary Arts" prejudiced the outcome of the proceedings or showed that the Director did 
not sufficiently consider the evidence of record. 
The record shows that, while the Petitioner's restaurant is listed in the Michelin Guide, it has not been 
awarded any stars. The Petitioner asserts that a listing without stars is still a coveted honor, but the record 
indicates that stars significantly elevate a restaurant's reputation. A printout from Michelin's website, 
"Beyond Stars: What Does It Mean To Be A Michelin-Recommended Restaurant?," reads, in part: 
While a rating of one to three stars is most coveted by chefs and restaurateurs alike, what 
usually remains under the radar are the restaurants listed in the red book but have not been 
awarded a star. These places are, in fact, judged by the same five criteria used for starred 
and Bib Gourmand restaurants, and are recognised as establishments serving good food. 
"A restaurant in the selection without a star or Bib Gourmand is the sign of a chef using 
quality ingredients that are well cooked; simply a good meal," says Michael Ellis, 
International Director of the MICHELIN Guides. 
"It means that the inspectors have found the food to be above average, but not quite at star 
or Bib level. One star ( or more) indicates a truly gastronomic experience," he continues. 
Inclusion in the Michelin Guide attests to the quality of the restaurant's food, and therefore to the 
Petitioner's talent as a chef, but the Petitioner's own evidence places particular emphasis on the prestige 
accorded to Michelin stars. The record indicates that inclusion in the Guide without stars is an 
endorsement of a restaurant's quality, but does not rise to the level of acclaim contemplated in the statute 
and regulations. 
6 
The Petitioner's appellate brief discusses, at some length, the prestige of Michelin stars, and provides 
information about some well-known chefs whose restaurants have earned those stars. This information 
does not convey comparable prestige on the Petitioner's restaurant, which has not earned any stars, and 
it does not show that the Petitioner is as well-known as the chefs named on appeal. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Guide lists only a small fraction of all U.S. restaurants. This statistic 
is somewhat skewed, because the record shows that "Michelin only launches in select cities," as reported 
in a submitted article from Raleigh Magazine, which indicated that, as of 2022, Michelin's coverage of 
the United States was limited to New York City and Westchester County; Chicago; Washington, D.C.; 
California; and southern Florida. The Petitioner has not shown that Michelin has sent inspectors to every 
restaurant even in those limited areas. 
The Petitioner's media coverage has, likewise, mostly been regional, in 
publications. This coverage indicates that the Petitioner's restaurant is locally popular and well-regarded, 
but the record does not consistently show broader recognition at the national or international level. 
Michelin has recognized the quality ofthe Petitioner's work, but the Petitioner's evidence as a whole does 
not show recognition that rises to the level of sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2024 In Re: 33167002 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner describes herself as a "new market business strategist" and seeks classification under 
the employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must 
demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of 
their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one of ten initial evidentiary criteria -two less than needed for a final merits 
determination. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she satisfied six other evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she has met two additional evidentiary criteria establishing: participation as 
a judge of others' work in the field; and commandment of a high salary in relation to others in the 
field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international recognized award" 
or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a 
petitioner meets either standard and the other statutory requirements, USCIS must then make a final 
merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or 
international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their 
field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Russian native and citizen, earned a master oflaws degree from 
a university in her home country in 2015. She served as acting head oflegal services for a government 
procurement department and executive director of a marketing/advertising firm before co-founding a 
legal consulting company in Russia in 2021. She serves as the company's chief executive officer 
(CEO), specializing in helping corporations enter new markets abroad. Now in the United States, the 
Petitioner states that she seeks to continue working as a new market business strategist. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner assert -her receipt of a major international 
award. She must therefore meet at least three of the ten lesser evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner successfully submitted evidence of her 
authorship of scholarly articles in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, she asserts 
that she also provided documentation of: 
• Her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• Published material about her work in her field; 
• Her participation as a judge of others' work in the field; 
• Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• Her performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations; 
and 
• Her commandment of a high salary or remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv), (v), (viii), (ix). 
A. Judge of Others' Work 
This criterion requires "[e ]vidence ofthe [ non citizen]' s participation, either individually or on a panel, 
as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification 
is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). To meet this requirement, a petitioner must not only show 
their invitation to judge others' work in the same or an allied field, but also their actual participation 
in that judging. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
1 If an evidentiary standard does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
I The Petitioner submitted letters from a teacher, university, and law professor stating her service as a 
jury member at two conferences: the International Conference of Young Scientists, 
in 2014; and a 2015 re ional 
university student conference, 
At the international conference, the Petitioner 
stated that she helped determine the top student participants, who had to prepare reports on selected 
topics, present their findings, and answer questions. In the regional conference, participating law 
students prepared oral and visual presentations on assigned topics and answered audience questions. 
The Director found insufficient evidence that the Petitioner's judging activities "relate[] to her field of 
expertise." We agree that she did not establish the conferences' specific focus on entering new 
business markets. But this evidentiary criterion permits judging others' work "in the same or an allied 
field." 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv) (emphasis added). The Petitioner has demonstrated that her jury 
membership at the two conferences involved judging others' work in international law, a discipline 
that the record indicates relates to her field of entering new business markets. Thus, contrary to the 
Director's decision, the Petitioner has met this evidentiary criterion. 
B. High Salary or Remuneration 
This criterion requires "[e ]vidence that the [ noncitizen] has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a tax certificate listing her 2023 salary as CEO of her legal 
consulting company as $284,700. She initially submitted U.S. Department ofLabor (DOL) wage data 
showing that her salary exceeded those in the 90th percentiles for CEOs in the United States and in 
thel larea, where she intends to work. The Director, however, found that the wage data for 
"chief executives" did not correspond to the Petitioner's stated occupation of "business intelligence 
analyst." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits evidence that her 2023 salary exceeded the average and high salaries 
for business intelligence analysts in the United States and thel Iarea. Ifa petitioner received 
notice ofrequired evidence and a reasonable opportunity to provide it before the petition's denial, we 
do not consider evidence submitted on appeal. Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 464, 466 (BIA 1988). 
The Director, however, did not notify the Petitioner of the need for additional evidence regarding her 
salary before the denial. Thus, we will accept her additional wage data evidence on appeal. 
A preponderance of the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's commandment of a high salary in her 
field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
C. Remand 
The Petitioner has met at least three initial evidentiary criteria. We therefore need not consider 
additional evidentiary requirements that she claims to satisfy. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 
25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to 
their ultimate decisions). 
3 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the Petitioner's filing. The Director did not 
make such a finding. Rather than make the determination in the first instance, we will remand the 
matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international 
acclaim and received recognition for achievements in her field, identifying her as one of that small 
percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(2). 
The Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence of record, even if it does not fit one of 
the initial evidentiary criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The petition's 
approval or denial depends on the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2024 In Re: 33361971 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a carbohydrate chemist research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
submit sufficient evidence establishing that he had satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria for this classification as set forth in the regulations. Namely, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied the requirements ofthe criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), which require 
evidence that he participated as a judge of the work of others in field and evidence that he wrote 
scholarly articles that were published in major trade publications, respectively. However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he met the requirements of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , which requires evidence that the Petitioner made original scientific or 
scholarly contributions of major significance in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director did not properly assess the submitted evidence and 
entirely overlooked the Petitioner's claim that he satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
which requires evidence that the Petitioner received a lesser nationally or internally recognized prize 
or award. While the Director acknowledged the newly submitted evidence, she did not discuss or 
mention the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), nor did she acknowledge that the additional evidence 
was submitted in support ofthis criterion and instead assessed the evidence with respect to the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Further, regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner correctly points out that 
although the Director acknowledged his submission of letters ofrecommendation, the Director did not 
discuss the contents of those letters and thus did not adequately explain how the evidence fell short of 
supporting the Petitioner's claim pertaining to this criterion. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review and 
because of the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the 
matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 27, 2024 In Re: 32654341 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a quality assurance engineer who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior quality assurance engineer for an information technology company in the 
real estate industry. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met four of 
the regulatory criteria but the Director decided that she did not satisfy any of them. On appeal, the 
Petitioner reduces her claims to three criteria, and those relate to judging, leading or critical role, and 
a high salary. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude she has not demonstrated 
she is eligible for this restrictive immigrant classification. 
Evidence ofthe alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner does not raise any potential errors in the Director's decision. Instead, 
she implies that there is some confusion with her affiliation with I I and she clarifies that they 
are not her employer. Rather, she indicates they sought her expertise to mentor students. A review of 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE) reflects they mentioned this organization as her employer 
in addition to notifying the Petitioner that the record did not contain evidence demonstrating she 
actually participated in judging the work of others. 
But the Petitioner's RFE response made no mention that I I was not her employer and she 
resubmitted the same evidence in that response that was already part ofthe record, and that the Director 
informed her was inadequate. It is only now in the appeal that the Petitioner presents the claim that 
is not her employer. 
The evidence relating tol I only reflects the organization is a bootcamp where students learn 
software quality assurance, and that the Petitioner worked for them for more than two years as a 
coordinator for "meetups" and as a mentor for bootcamp students. The record lacks adequate and 
probative evidence to demonstrate the Petitioner's responsibilities atl las a mentor constitutes 
serving in a judging capacity as anticipated by the regulation. The plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires "[e]vidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a 
2 I 
panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which 
classification is sought." 
Serving as a mentor as part of one's normal responsibilities does not equate to participation as a judge 
of the work of others in the field. The regulation cannot be read to include every common instance of 
mentoring bootcamp students. There is insufficient evidence in the record demonstrating that the 
Petitioner actually served "as a judge of the work of others." And finally, the Petitioner provides no 
explanation describing how judging the performance of bootcamp students constitutes judging "the 
work of others in the same or an allied field." 
While the Director's decision did include some language about this company being the Petitioner's 
employer, their decision under this criterion was not wholly based on this aspect. Both the RFE and 
the denial informed the Petitioner that the evidence she offered did not meet this criterion's 
requirements. As such, the Director's indication thatl lwas the Petitioner's employer amounts 
to a harmless error. 
It is not enough to demonstrate errors in an agency's decision; a petitioner must also establish they 
were prejudiced by the mistakes. Shinseki v. Sanders, 556 U.S. 396, 409 (2009); Molina-Martinez v. 
United States, 578 U.S. 189, 203 (2016). As the Petitioner has not demonstrated she was prejudiced by 
the Director's error, such a lapse in propriety is harmless and is insufficient grounds upon which to base 
this appeal. Errors can be overlooked when they had no bearing on the substance of an agency's 
decision. Aguilar v. Garland, 60 F.4th 401, 407 (8th Cir. 2023) ( citing Prohibition Juice Co. v. United 
States Food & Drug Admin., 45 F.4th 8, 24 (D.C. Cir. 2022)). The party that "seeks to have a judgment 
set aside because of an erroneous ruling carries the burden of showing that prejudice resulted." 
Shinseki, 556 U.S. at 409 (quoting Palmer v. Hoffman, 318 U.S. 109, 116 (1943)); Molina-Martinez, 
578 U.S. at 203. 
Because the Director's RFE notified the Petitioner that her claims and evidence were inadequate but 
she offered nothing new in response, and the sole issue she raises in the appeal amounts to a harmless 
error on the Director's part, she has not demonstrated that she can fulfill this criterion's requirements. 
Evidence ofcommercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Director discussed the evidence submitted for this criterion and found that the Petitioner did not 
establish her eligibility. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings for this 
criterion or offer additional arguments. Therefore, the Petitioner has abandoned or waived her 
eligibility claims under this criterion. E.g., Matter ofZhang, 27 I&N Dec. 569, 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) 
(finding that an issue not appealed is deemed as abandoned). 
Turning to the two remaining criteria, we conclude that although the Petitioner claims she meets three 
criteria, because her arguments fail on the judging criterion discussed above, that means she cannot 
numerically meet the required number of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to make a decision on 
these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these the remaining issues of her leading or critical 
role and her high salary. Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 328, 332 (2022) ( citing INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 
3 
U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues 
that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); see also Matter ofM-R-M-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 757, 764 
(BIA 2023) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9168949 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a sports marketing company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, and it could not make a material 
change to a petition. Subsequently , the Director dismissed the Petitioner's motion. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the decision and 
remand the matter to the Director. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories I isted at 8 C. F. R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the initial filing, the Petitioner provided a cover letter that did not claim the Beneficiary's receipt 
of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3). Moreover, although it 
described "The Qualifications of [the Beneficiary] for the United States Position," the Petitioner did 
not identify which evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) that the Beneficiary met, nor did 
it explain how the submitted documentation related to the criteria. 
However, the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) and indicated, in part, that the Petitioner 
provided documentation relating to three criteria: original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Specifically, the Director discussed letters submitted by the Petitioner under each of these criteria and 
suggested types of additional evidence that could be offered. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner did not present any additional documentation relating to the 
evidentiary criteria. Instead, the Petitioner provided documentation regarding other benefits filed by the 
Beneficiary, such as adjustment of status, employment authorization, and advanced travel documentation. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted an amended employment petition, requesting that the Beneficiary 
be re-classified as a multinational executive or manager under section 203(b)(l)(C) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(C). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner could not materially change its petition 
by re-classifying the Beneficiary as a multinational executive or manager.1 Furthermore, the Director 
listed all of the documentation submitted by the Petitioner at the initial filing, including letters, business 
documents, and emails, and stated that the Petitioner did not "specify which of the extraordinary ability 
criteri[a] the petitioner intended to address." In addition, under the discussion for each of the ten 
evidentiary criteria, the Director indicated "[a]t the time of the filing, the petitioner provided no evidence 
for this criterion." As such, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary 
met any of the evidentiary criteria. 
On motion, the Petitioner argued that the Director erred in not adjudicating the petition as a multinational 
executive or manager. Subsequently, the Director dismissed the motion, determining that the Petitioner 
1 The Di rector also concluded that prior counsel signed the amended petition rather than the Petitioner. 
2 
did not demonstrate that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. In addition, 
the Director stated that "in its decision to deny Form 1-140, USCIS acknowledged the submission of 
various types of evidence and explained why it was insufficient to show the petitioner met the claimed 
criteria." 
On appeal, the Petitioner no longer requests re-classification of the Beneficiary as a multinational 
executive or manager. 2 Instead, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and argues the 
Beneficiary's eligibility for five criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), leading or critical role at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix).3 
As discussed above, the Director indicated in his RFE that the Petitioner presented documentary evidence 
relating to three specific criteria: original contributions, leading or critical role, and high salary. 
Moreover, the Director discussed the evidence in the RFE as it pertained to these three criteria. However, 
in his denial of the petition, the Director concluded that "the petitioner provided no evidence" for each of 
the criteria. Furthermore, on motion, the Director indicated that "in its decision to deny Form 1-140, 
USCIS acknowledged the submission of various types of evidence and explained why it was insufficient 
to show the petitioner met the claimed criteria." Again, the Director did not provide an explanation 
regarding the insufficiency of the documentation; rather, the Director stated that the Petitioner did not 
offer any evidence. 
Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to consider all of the evidence in the record, 
including the additional claims and documentation on appeal, to determine the Beneficiary's eligibility 
under the evidentiary criteria. If, after considering all of the evidence for the claimed criteria, the 
Director concludes that the Petitioner meets at least three criteria, then the Director must evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of a final merits determination. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1115. 
Furthermore, if the Director determines that the Petitioner does not satisfy at least three criteria, then 
he must explain his determination. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Director did not consider evidence in the record to determine the Beneficiary's eligibility as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. As such, we will remand the matter for further consideration of the 
record, including claims and documentation submitted on appeal, and entry of a new decision.4 
2 The Petitioner is precluded from requesting a change of classification. A petitioner may not make material changes to a 
petition in an effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS requirements. See Matter of lzummi, 22 l&N Dec. 169, 
176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); see also Brazil Quality Stones, Inc., v. Chertoff, Slip Copy, 2008 WL 2743927 (9th Cir. 2008) 
(once USCIS concludes that an alien is not eligible for the specifically requested classification, the agency is not required 
to consider, sua sponte, whether the alien is eligible for an alternate classification). 
3 The Petitioner also argues that its "former counsel was ineffective and prejudicial to her clients," and "it is clear that 
[former counsel] does not practice immigration and nationality law." The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) 
established a framework for asserting and assessing claims of ineffective assistance of counsel. See Matter of Lozada, 19 
l&N Dec. 637 (BIA 1988), aff'd, 857 F.2d 10 (1st Cir. 1988). Here, the Petitioner did not provide the threshold 
documentary requirements for asserting a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. 
4 We have the authority to withdraw a decision and remand the case for further action, with an order that it be certified 
back to us if the new decision is adverse to the affected party. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0087, Certification 
3 
ORDER: The decision of the Director, Texas Service Center, is withdrawn. The matter is 
remanded to the Director, Texas Service Center, for further proceedings consistent with 
the foregoing opinion and for the entry of a new decision, which, if adverse, shall be 
certified to us for review. 
of Decisions to the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) 4 (July 2, 2013), https://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda, 
Adjudicator's Field Manual 3.5(c), 10.18(a)(3), https://www.uscis.gov/ilink. This order is not meant to compel approval 
of the remanded case, but is designed to preserve the affected party's ability to seek appellate review without payment of 
a second appeal fee. Id. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 28, 2023 In Re: 28284448 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vocational agricultural teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidence requirements for this classification based on his receipt of a 
major, internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by meeting at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal on 
the same grounds, and then dismissed the Petitioner's previous combined motions to reopen and 
reconsider. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .5( a)(3 ). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
1 The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top 
ofthe field ofendeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi­
part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , the petitioner 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality 
of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter o_fCoelho, 20 I&N Dec. 
464, 4 73 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
In support of the motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits additional documentation related to the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner has 
commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others 
in his field. The new evidence provided with the motion consists ofa U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) approval notice indicating that the Petitioner is the beneficiary of an H-lB 
nonimmigrant petition authorizing his employment with a private U.S. university from February 2023 
through February 2026, along with copies of his pay statements from the university indicating that he 
commenced employment as a "Scientist III" in February 2023.2 While this new evidence corroborates 
the Petitioner's claimed annual salary with his new employer, it cannot establish that he satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) at the time he filed this petition in June 2021. As noted in our 
prior decision, USCIS regulations affirmatively require a petitioner to establish eligibility for the 
benefit sought at the time the petition is filed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). A visa petition cannot be 
approved based on speculation of future eligibility or after a petitioner becomes eligible under a new 
set of facts. See Matter ofMichelin Tire Corp., 17 I&N Dec. 248, 249 (Reg'l Comm'r 1978). 
Here, the Petitioner has not provided new facts that would overcome our dismissal ofthe prior motion. 
Because the Petitioner has not established new facts that would warrant reopening of the proceeding, 
we have no basis to reopen that decision. Accordingly, the motion to reopen will be dismissed. 
With respect to the motion to reconsider, the Petitioner does not claim on motion that our prior 
decision, dismissing the previous combined motions, was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy or that it was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision. In fact, 
his statement in support of the motion contains no reference to our prior decision. Rather, the 
Petitioner provides a table listing the evidence and arguments he asserts establish his eligibility under 
six criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, and in support of his prior combined motions, 
he provided a nearly identical chart. While the Petitioner continues to maintain he submitted sufficient 
evidence to establish eligibility for the requested classification, he cannot meet the requirements of a 
motion to reconsider by broadly disagreeing with our conclusions or repeating arguments that have 
already been considered in previous decisions; the motion must demonstrate how we erred as a matter 
of law or policy in our last decision. See e.g., Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a 
motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same brief presented 
on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board decision"). 
Here, the Petitioner does not identify any specific error of law or policy in our prior decision. Rather, 
he requests a general reconsideration of his eligibility, which is insufficient to meet the requirements 
2 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted supplemental evidence related to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) in July 2023, approximately three months after filing this motion. Although the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(2)(vii) states that a petitioner may be permitted additional time to submit a brief or additional evidence to our 
office in connection with an appeaL no such provision applies to a motion to reopen or reconsider. The additional evidence 
must comprise the motion. See 8 C.F.R § I 03.5(a)(2) and (3). We note that this supplemental evidence also relates to the 
Petitioner's claim that he earns a high salary based on his current employment as a scientist III, a position he assumed after 
the denial of the petition. As observed above, even ifwe considered this evidence, it could not demonstrate the Petitioner 
satisfied the plain language of this criterion at the time of filing or provide proper cause for reopening. 
2 
of motion under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, 
the motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, 
he has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not established that our 
previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued our 
decision. Therefore, the motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 28, 2024 In Re: 33446317 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a religious faith writer and advocate for the disabled, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification through evidence of 
either a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). After we dismissed the Petitioner ' s initial appeal, the Director dismissed 
four motions. In our most recent decision, we summarily dismissed a subsequent appeal. The matter 
is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Because the scope of a motion is 
limited to the prior decision, we will only review the latest decision in these proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(l)(i) , (ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits emails between himself and his former attorneys in which they 
explain their decision to not pursue an appeal. He expresses his regrets at his attorneys' failure to 
submit an appeal brief, and asks that we nevertheless consider his assertions regarding the merits of 
his petition. However, the Petitioner does not assert that our summary dismissal was erroneous , or 
provide evidence which would support such an assertion. He also does not seek to establish that our 
summary dismissal was based upon an incorrect application of law or policy and was incorrect based 
on the evidence of record at the time of the decision. Therefore, the motions will be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Although we dismiss the motions as explained above, we will briefly discuss the Petitioner's brief 
regarding the merits of his petition. In our decision of April 23, 2020, we agreed with the Director's 
conclusion that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), relating to his authorship 
of scholarly articles in his field. We also discussed at length the evidence the Petitioner submitted in 
support of the two remaining evidentiary criteria he claimed to meet, which relate to lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards and published materials about him and his work in the field, and 
concluded that he met neither criterion. 1 
In support of his claim under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner has provided further evidence 
with his motions regarding the nomination process for his award. But this 
evidence reinforces that the award is given for contributions to the Catholic Church, and not for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. As we indicated in our initial decision on appeal, the 
profiles of other winners shows that they received their awards for a variety of activities related to the 
Catholic Church, and in many cases for unexplained service to the church. This evidence has not 
established that the Petitioner meets all of the elements of this criterion. 
Regarding the Petitioner's claim under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of 
published materials about him and his work, the Petitioner has provided evidence concerning the 
publication date, author, and title of the previously submitted articles. In addition to the previously 
acknowledged article in American Ideals, this evidence confirms that two of these materials were 
published in the East African Standard onl Iand 28, 1999, and one in the Kenya Times on 
1 11996. 
However, the additional evidence does not establish that any of these media are professional or major 
trade publications, or other major media, as required under this criterion. A letter from the publisher 
(Standard Group) of the East African Standard (now The Standard) states that it is a leading 
multimedia publishing house in Kenya and that the newspaper has been in existence since 1902, and 
other evidence suggests that the Standard Group is one of four "main players" in multimedia in Kenya. 
But USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. 
CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self­
serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of 
major media). Whether a certain medium qualifies under this criterion depends upon factors such as 
the intended audience and its relative circulation, readership, or viewership. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy ManualF.2(B)(1). The broad statements concerning the Standard Group's status is insufficient 
to establish that the East African Standard is or was a major medium. 
As for the other two publications, the evidence does not show that they are qualifying media. Notably, 
the record indicates only that the Kenya Times went out of publication several years before the filing 
1 As the Petitioner did not challenge the Director's decision regarding two additional evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii), we concluded that the Petitioner's claim to those criteria had been waived. 
2 
of the instant petition. And the availability of American Ideals on the internet is insufficient, as the 
sole factor, to demonstrate that it qualifies as a major medium. 
Finally, we note that much of the evidence submitted with the Petitioner's current motion concerns 
recent events which have occurred well after the filing of his petition. But eligibility must be 
established at the time of filing. 8 C.F .R. § § 103 .2(b )( 1 ), ( 12); Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 
49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971 ). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner becomes 
eligible under a new set of facts. Matter ofIzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998). That 
decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981), further provides that USCIS 
cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
Thus, while we dismiss the Petitioner's combined motions because they do not establish that our 
summary dismissal of his appeal was in error, we note that even if we were to consider his assertions 
and evidence regarding the merits of his petition, they would not establish his eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 28, 2024 InRe: 31677520 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a cybersecurity professional in the field of business, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a computer and network professional working in the cybersecurity and business fields. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (ii), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (v), original contributions of major significance 
• (vi), authorship of scholarly articles 
• (vii), display of his work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met one criterion pertaining to the display of his work in the 
field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the display criteria, but he also satisfies two additional 
categories of evidence of published material about the individual in professional or major media and 
authorship of scholarly articles. Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies at least three 
criteria, we will remand the matter to the Director to evaluate the totality ofthe evidence in the context 
of a final merits determination to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated his sustained 
national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The plain language of this criterion requires evidence (1) of published material, (2) that the published 
material contains the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation, (3) that the 
published material is about the Petitioner relating to the Petitioner's work in the field, and (4) that the 
2 
published material qualifies as professional or major trade publications or other major media. The 
petitioner's evidence must satisfy every one ofthese elements to meet the plain language requirements 
of this criterion. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation (online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. Further, for purposes of this criterion, while published material need not be 
primarily or only about a petitioner to qualify, it cannot be solely about their employer or another 
organization with which they are associated. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2. 
The record includes copies of several articles by media which discuss or mention the Petitioner and 
his work. The Director noted some issues with certain articles including incomplete translations and 
inconsistent information, but the Petitioner subsequently provided a complete and full translation of 
each article and explanations to overcome the Director's concerns. On appeal, he specifically 
discusses several articles where he was interviewed regarding his work in cybersecurity and business, 
and published in media outlets such as Komsomolskaya Pravda, Argumenty Nedeli, Forbes 
Kazakhstan, Esquire Kazakhstan, Cnews and Tech Times. The Petitioner also provided information 
regarding the circulation of each publication and how some publications achieved high publication 
rates. The evidence of record meets the plain language of this criterion, and we will withdraw the 
Director's conclusion on this specific matter. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains printouts of articles attributed to the Petitioner, 
posted online by differing web portals, along with Similarweb data regarding the web portals. 
However, the Director determined that the record does not establish how the articles are scholarly in 
nature, which require such aspects as research and work cited. Additionally, the Director determined 
that none of the publication sites are a major trade publication. On appeal, the Petitioner objects that 
the Director improperly imposed the criteria for scholarly articles in the academic arena rather than 
articles written for learned persons and contends that the publications qualify as major trade 
publications or other major media. 
The Petitioner correctly asserts that the non-academic articles authored by the Petitioner in the record 
do not implicate the criteria for academic articles described in the USCIS Policy Manual, including 
"footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography." See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www. 
uscis.gov/policy-manual. Instead, the criterion is that the articles in question "should be written for 
learned persons in that field," including "all persons having profound knowledge of a field." See id. 
For example, the Petitioner's article entitled, ____________________ 
is intended for learned persons in the Petitioner's fields of business and technology. Also, 
the publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication since it is provided to experts, 
including top managers, business gurus, entrepreneurs, executives, and investors. The same was found 
for the article written by the Petitioner that were published in Habr.com and Kommersant. The record 
establishes the content of the articles written by the Petitioner were written for learned persons in the 
field, rather than laypersons in other fields, and information regarding the media indicate that more 
3 I 
than one of those publishers are highly regarded among learned persons in the field. Therefore, the 
record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
For the reasons discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for 
further review and entry of a new decision. Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications 
under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (vi), and (vii), on remand, the Director should conduct a 
final merits review of the evidence of record. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for the handful of individuals at 
the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
the required sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence evaluating whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international 
acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We 
express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 28, 2024 In Re: 33277950 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cultural director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show her sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate she is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner met three of the claimed evidentiary criteria relating to 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not 
show she garnered sustained national or international acclaim and her achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating she is one of that small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that her evidence in the aggregate establishes her eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability and that the Director's decision "did not provide specific reasons as 
to why it found that [the Petitioner's] work is not consistent with being among the small percentage at 
the top of the field or having a 'career of acclaimed work."' Below, we will evaluate the totality of 
the evidence based on the documentation presented to the Director in the context of the final merits 
determination. 1 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will determine 
whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or 
international acclaim, 2 she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing Black's 
Law Dictionary's definition of"sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To persist in 
making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition in its 
entirety to detennine eligibility according to the standard- sustained national or international acclaim and the achievements 
2 
As it relates to the Petitioner's background, according to the initial cover letter: 
[The Petitioner] is a skilled Cultural Director who has demonstrated her abilities across 
a myriad of mediums, including art exhibitions and live musical performances. As a 
result of [her] superior skill set, she has developed a distinguished reputation as a 
Cultural Director .... 
[The Petitioner] has performed in a leading or critical role as Cultural Director in the 
role of President for the Foundation for Culture of I I The 
Foundation is dedicated to promoting and preserving the cultural identity ofl I 
with the vision of positioning the city as a cultural destination of national and 
international significance. . . . [The Petitioner] served as the President of the 
Foundation for nearly a decade. 
Her work has also been displayed throughout her career at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases for wide and diverse audiences. These displays have included art 
exhibitions and musical performances that have been the culmination of [the 
Petitioner's] work as a Cultural Director. Examples include the _______ 
exhibition and restoration of the I Icanvas, as well as the exhibition of 
the Collection, 1999, byl Iat the I I 
I I . . . [The Petitioner] has also worked on artistic showcases like 
thel I Festival ... at the _________ 
[The Petitioner] was invited to and actually served as a judge during the March 2016 
auditions for the I .. As a judge, [the Petitioner] 
evaluated the work of other professionals in the field by assessing the musical skills of 
the candidates and their knowledge of the I I musical repertoire. 
Finally, her contributions to the field, as well as her accomplishments as a Cultural 
Director, have earned the Petitioner si nificant ress covera e from major 
publications. The article, 
published by prominently features [the Petitioner] and 
her opinions on the _____ As such, news of [the Petitioner] and her 
work as a Cultural Director have reached a wider audience. 
have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor). 
3 
In the appeal brief, the Petitioner highlights her career achievements as follows: 
• [[The Petitioner] presented evidence that she was the Director of Culture for I I 
from 1996 to 1999. She was then the President of the Foundation for Culture 
of from 1999 to 2008. In these roles, she held a lead and critical 
role given that she was responsible for ensuring the historical heritage and cultural 
management in Venezuela. 
• From 1999 to 2008, [the Petitioner] presented evidence that she has been published in 
major publications due to her extraordinary ability as a Cultural Director. ... [O]ne of 
the publications in which [the Petitioner] was published, I I is a major 
publication among the others. 
• [The Petitioner] helped install the exhibition of in 2007. 
• [The Petitioner] presented evidence that she served as a judge of the work of her peers 
in 2016. 
As discussed further below, the Petitioner has served in leadership pos1t10ns for two cultural 
organizations inl Ireceived media coverage in the "City" section ofl Icoordinated 
visual and performing arts events inl I evaluated the skills of candidates auditioning for a 
music group inl Iand been praised by others in the field. However, in considering the totality 
of the evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her achievements are reflective of a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). Nor has the Petitioner shown that she has sustained acclaim as a cultural director after 2008.4 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that she has risen to that small percentage at the very 
top ofthe field of endeavor and garnered national or international acclaim. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), 
(3). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability 
is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently documented a career that meets these very high standards. 
As evidence of her leading roles, the Petitioner provided a letter from D-M-M-D-C-, President of the 
Foundation of Culture of stating that the Petitioner served as the organization's 
President from 1999 to 2008 and that "projects executed during her management" included: "Festival 
of the Arts,I I International Fair, Festival, International Book Fair, [andll I 
Program in Municipal Schools." Likewise, a letter from D-M-, General Director ofl I 
publishing house, 5 asserted that the Petitioner's "direction made possible the location of works, loans 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (instrncting that USCIS officers should determine if "the person 
continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field of expe1tise since the person was originally afforded that 
recognition. A person may, for example. have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to 
maintain a comparable level of acclaim thereafter."). 
5 D-M-'s letter noted that. as the former Executive Director of the in the 1990s and 
4 
of paintings in state collections, restoration of original fabrics and frames, such as the printing of an 
educational brochure for children and the organization of the exhibition in spaces of the centenary 
He also indicated that he and the Petitioner "proceeded with the 
restoration of a canvas of monumental dimensions by the painter that crowned the 
ceiling of the and that "together with a group of architects and 
restorers," their project contributed to "the recovery of one of the most important murals in the 
country." 
Although the Petitioner served as Director of Culture forl Ifrom 1996 to 1999 and 
then as President of the Foundation for Culture of Ifrom 1999 to 2008, she did not 
document roles for any other organizations or establishments after 2008 to demonstrate her sustained 
acclaim. Moreover, while the Petitioner's local art and cultural work was reported in the "City" section 
ofl I the Petitioner's evidence does not indicate that her work received a level of attention 
rendering her nationally or internationally acclaimed or otherwise placing her among that small 
percentage at the very top ofthe field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that her roles for two cultural 
organizations in I Iresulted in widespread acclaim in her field, attracted significant attention 
from throughout her field, elevated her to the very top of the field, or was otherwise indicative of 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3). 
Regarding media coverage, the Petitioner provided numerous articles in the "City" section of 
__ reporting on her work inl I from 1996 until 2008. 6 The Petitioner, however, has not 
provided news coverage about her from any other media source besides I I She has not 
demonstrated that her press coverage in a local section of a single newspaper, without any further 
media reporting about her since 2008, is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Nor has the 
Petitioner shown how her overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being among 
that small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Here, the Petitioner has not established that her media coverage in only one newspaper (limited to the 
mid-1990s until 2008) reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard ... 
to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. 
Reg. at 30704. 
As it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the 
significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The 
Petitioner presented a letter from Dr. J-C-R-, "founder of the I I Istating: "In March 2016 the auditions for the creation of thel 
I I began. The work consisted of evaluating the musical skills of the participants and the 
2000s, he worked with the Petitioner while she was serving as "the Director of Culture for Iduring the 
years 1996-1999" and when she "later became President ofthe Foundation for Culture of II 999-2008." 
6 We agree with the Director thatl is a form of major media. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that "she has been 
published in major publications," but has only submitted articles inl land its circulation information. 
5 
I knowledge in the execution of each instrument, as well as the repertoire .... The Iwas made 
up of 11 people; [the Petitioner] was invited as a juror to evaluate the row of cellos." Here, the 
Petitioner has not shown that her judging experience involved evaluating the work of nationally or 
internationally renowned cellists rather than local I I musicians whose reputations are not 
documented in the record. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that this single instance of 
judging auditions for the in 2016 contributes to a finding that she 
has a career of acclaimed work in the field ofcultural direction or demonstrates the required "sustained 
national or international acclaim." See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. She did not show, for example, how her experience in evaluating cellists for thel 
compares to others at the very top of her field. Similarly, the record does not show that the Petitioner 
garnered national or international acclaim for her service as a judge. Without evidence that sets her 
apart from others in the field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history ofjudging recognized, 
acclaimed artists, performers, or experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown that her judging 
experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner also provided recommendation letters praising her for her talents, skills, and capabilities 
as a cultural director. For instance, D-M-indicated that the Petitioner contributed to "the organization 
of the exhibition of emblematic works of ______ in which works by the painter were 
reproduced on canvas and together with a catalog the exhibition was circulated through schools, 
athenaeums, and houses of culture in thel !State. A program that made it possible to bring 
works of art closer to children and young students with limited resources." Although the letters 
commend the Petitioner on her art and culture projects in I Ithey do not 
contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include adequate corroborating 
evidence, to show that she is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. Moreover, the letters do not establish 
that her specific contributions are indicative of a career of acclaimed work in the field and the requisite 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. 
Furthermore, while the Petitioner was involved in the planning and coordination of festivals, concerts, 
and other artistic events inl (such as the city's International Fair, Venezuelan! !Festival, 
and _____ exhibition) from the mid-1990s until 2008, simply organizing such events does 
not automatically place her at the very top of the field. She did not demonstrate, for example, that her 
specific planning and coordination work garnered a level ofattention consistent with having sustained 
national or international acclaim or placed her among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). Nor is there evidence indicating that the 
Petitioner has maintained involvement in directing comparable activities in I I or any other 
major city after 2008. She therefore that not demonstrated that whatever level of acclaim she received 
in the field of cultural direction has been sustained since 2008. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
6 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). 
After consideration of the totality of the evidence, including the Petitioner's leadership positions for 
two cultural organizations inl Ipublished material about her in the "City" section ofl I 
her coordination of art and culture events and programs in I I her single instance of judging 
candidates auditioning for a music group in I I as well as the opinions of her colleagues in the 
field, we conclude that this documentation does not sufficiently establish her sustained national or 
international acclaim or show that she is among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. Nor does the Petitioner's evidence demonstrate that she continues to maintain 
a comparable level of acclaim in her field of expertise after 2008. While the Petitioner's 
documentation indicates that she received media attention from one newspaper for her activities in I I from 1996 until 2008, she has not shown that her achievements are indicative of the required 
sustained acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59; see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In 
addition, the Petitioner has not otherwise demonstrated that she has garnered national or international 
acclaim in her field and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 29, 2023 In Re: 25767360 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Exceptional Ability) 
The Petitioner, a television host, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through 
evidence of either a one-time achievement or that he meets three ofthe alternative evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 We agreed with the Director's decision and dismissed the Petitioner 's 
appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to 
reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these 
requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. See Matter ofCoelho, 20 l&N Dec. 
464,473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we overlooked a number of items in our prior decision and that 
he has satisfied at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We note that 
contrary to the claim that we "completely ignored" the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
1 The Director determined that the Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) . 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), as we explained in our decision, we reserved the issue2 because the Petitioner would 
not have been able to "fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria."3 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As discussed in our prior decision, the evidence regarding the Petitioner's awards from Telenedelya 
and the Ukraine edition of Cosmopolitan does not establish that either award was nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field. In addition, we explained that none of the 
Petitioner's five claimed awards for the reality television show I !identify him as the 
recipient. 
On motion, the Petitioner continues to contend that he received the most votes from the Ukrainian 
people to win these awards. The Petitioner also explains that Cosmopolitan has a large circulation for 
the Ukrainian edition and, thus, Cosmopolitan awards are nationally recognized awards for excellence. 
In support, the Petitioner submits articles regarding Cosmopolitan magazine's circulation in Ukraine 
and its popularity worldwide. However, the record does not contain evidence showing that his awards, 
such as "Man of the Year" and "Telestar," are nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in the.field. 
With regard to the five awards for j lthe Petitioner states that he previously submitted 
a letter from the production company, I Iwhich confirms that he was the 
leading host and that he played an integral part in receiving the award. However, as we have explained, 
in order to satisfy the plain language of this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he was the 
recipient of the prizes or awards. The record indicates that the show ~------~ received the 
five awards and not the Petitioner in particular. 4 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
As explained in our prior decision, the Petitioner submitted articles from a variety of sources, some of 
which did not identify the author as required. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish the 
significance of the provided statistics to show that they appeared in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that he submitted more than five articles that included the authors' 
names and dates of publication. Many of the remaining articles, however, do not appear to relate to 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
3 Because the Petitioner does not meet any additional criteria, we will again reserve this criterion. Id. 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (stating that the description of this type of evidence in the 
regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.) 
2 
his work in the field, but rather are interviews that ask questions about the "kind of girls" he likes, "the 
main thing" he looks for "when choosing a car," and "the best" football league. Regardless, he has 
not shown how their circulation compares to other publications. Thus, the Petitioner does not establish 
that these articles were published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 5 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
We determined that the letters from colleagues, promotional information froml !channel, and 
Y ouTube screenshots did not demonstrate that the Petitioner's original work rises to the level ofartistic 
or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 
On motion, the Petitioner continues to contend that because he has created and produced several 
popular TV shows, has been a host on the 1 t has a large social media 
following, 6 and has endorsements and contracts wit~ Ihe has 
demonstrated that he meets this criterion. The issue here is not whether he has been a contributor in 
some manner, but rather that he must demonstrate that he has made original artistic contributions of 
major significance in the field ofentertainment. Here, the Petitioner does not provide new information 
or evidence on motion to overcome our prior conclusions. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
On motion, the Petitioner states that "[t]he fact that.__________ __, has a distinguished 
reputation is not relevant because it is the larogram that matters" and provides a letter from the chief 
executive officer ofI and copies of 'l tratinf from 2016, 2017, 
and 2019. In addition, the Petitioner states that the Ukrainian channel that shows I I lis a national organization or establishment 'just as a business or political party or a church and 
thus has a distinguished reputation." 
In the letter from the chief executive officer of._________ ____. the author lists the various 
awards that the l I show has won and asserts that due to these awards and the popularity 
of the show,.___~ ______ __, has a distinguished reputation as it is the production company 
for the show. With regard to the Petitioner performing in a leading or critical role, the author states 
that the Petitioner "has always played the role of the protagonist of each episode of the 1 I 
c=lshow," which makes him the "leading role in a capacity ofthe TV host forl I c=./ The author farther states that "the production team [ for j ~ unanimously agreed 
that they owned [sic] the success to [the Petitioner] due to his professional acting, presentation, 
comedy skills, and his ability to charm the audiences." In addition, the author states that the Petitioner 
"contributed in a significant matter to screen writing efforts," which is a "critical contribution." The 
author also contends that the "seasons when [the Petitioner] was a co-host were the most popular 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, Appendices, supra, at F.2 (indicating that evidence ofpublished material in professional or 
major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics) 
6 While we acknowledge the error in FN 12 of our previous decision, the Petitioner has not established that his popularity 
on social media represents an original artistic or business-related contribution of major significance in the field. 
3 
seasons out of the entire lifetime of the~....------~~ show" and references the show's ratings 
from 2016, 2017, and 2019. 
The plain language of this criterion requires for the organizations or establishments to have a 
distinguished reputation, defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an 
eminent person."7 While the Petitioner was the lead host for l I I I he does not demonstrate how the shows in which he appeared ,.........._ ___..___, 
izations or establishments consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover while 
' may have won various awards, the evidence is insufficient to establish that .________ ___, 
has a distinguished reputation. B
Regarding the Petitioner's invitation as a representative and liaison for the youth oti Ias we 
explained, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information to establish that his role was leading 
or critical and provides no new evidence on motion to overcome this conclusion. 
Finally, we note that his role as a presenter at a charity event for Ukraine in New York on I I 
02023 occurred after the filing ofthe petition. Eligibility must be demonstrated at the time of filing. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), (12). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner does not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
As we discussed in our prior decision, the letters from._l--~-----__.,l...,,andl II I and Y ouTube screenshots showing "views" of I I were insufficient to 
establish that the volume of sales or television revenue forl Ireflects the Petitioner's 
commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits additional information about 'I Iincluding 1....-~ 
.________ __.ratings for the show, and also mentions that he "has been a host of TV programs 
which has sponsors such as I t In addition, the 
Petitioner states that TV companies in the Ukraine do not publish the volume of sales for programs 
and consider that information confidential. 
Although the Petitioner provided additional information such as ratings information for thelI I for various weeks, it does not overcome our prior conclusion. .___ ___, 
Because the new materials submitted on motion do not show proper cause for reopening, we will 
dismiss the motion to reopen. Moreover, the Petitioner has not established that we misapplied law or 
policy and that our prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of the decision. Thus, we will also dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
7 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited m 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 29, 2024 In Re: 33403917 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that she meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either through her 
receipt of a major internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence that satisfies at least 
three of the ten criteria set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the United States to continue working in the area of extraordinary 
ability; and 
• Their entry offers substantial prospective benefits to the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate a 
petitioner's one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that they meet at least three of 
the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Viscinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2dl339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
biological sciences, specifically in protein biology and molecular biology. The record reflects that she 
received her Ph.D. in medical microbiology from _______ in 2012. Between 2013 and 
_________ 2022, the Petititioner worked in postdoctoral fellow and research associate positions with I I I Iand at At the time of filing, she 
was employed as a research scientist in the Department of Neurology at 
She indicates her intent to continue her work as a research scientist if 
granted lawful permanent residence in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must show that she satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (vi), (viii) and (ix) and concluded she satisfied only one of these criteria. 
Specifically, the Director found that the Petitioner met her burden to demonstrate her authorship of 
scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). However, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish her membership in professional associations that require outstanding 
achievements, her original contributions of major significance in her field, her leading or critical role 
with organizations that have a distinguished reputation, or her high salary in relation to others in her 
field. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications 
including Journal of Bacteriology, Free Radical Biology and Medicine, Microbiological Research, 
and Journal ofAlzheimer's Disease. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Further, although not addressed by the 
Director, a review of the initial evidence submitted in support of the petition reflects the Petitioner 
2 
claimed she has participated as a judge of the work of others in her field, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). She provided evidence that she has served as a peer reviewer for the Journal of 
Diabetes Research and Therapy. Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner has met this additional 
criterion. 
Although the Petitioner submits a brief in support of the appeal, she does not address or contest the 
Director's determination that she did not meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (v), relating 
to membership in associations in her field and original contributions of major significance in the field. 
An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) ( citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). Therefore, we will not further 
address these criteria. 
In her brief, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked evidence she submitted in support of 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). We will discuss her claims and evidence relating 
to these two criteria below. For the reasons provided, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
1. Leading or Critical Role 
To determine whether an individual meets 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) first determines whether they have performed in a leading or critical 
role for an organization, establishment or a division or department of an organization or establishment. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person was a leader within the 
organization or a division or department thereof. A title with appropriate matching job duties can help 
to establish whether the role is leading. For a critical role, we look at whether the evidence establishes 
that the person has contributed in a way that is significantly important to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2(B)(l ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual ( discussing evaluation ofinitial evidence of extraordinary ability 
under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)). If the evidence demonstrates that the person performed in 
a leading or critical role, we determine whether the organization or establishment, or the department or 
division for which the person held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner claimed that she served in a critical role as a postdoctoral fellow at the 
in Texas from 2013 to 2014 and in a leadin role as a senior research 
associate with from 2016 to 
2017. 
The Director addressed the Petitioner's role as a postdoctoral fellow forl land concluded 
that she did not meet her burden to establish that her role was leading or critical to the organization or 
to a department or division of the organization. We agree with the Director's conclusion and note that 
the Petitioner has not contested the Director's determination with respect to this role on appeal. The 
Petitioner did not submit a letter from this employer or from a person with knowledge of her work 
with to support her claim that her role was significantly important to the outcome of 
the I I activities. Further, we note the Petitioner herself described her 
postdoctoral fellow role as a "trainee" position that "participates as a support in ongoing projects under 
the supervision of a principal investigator." Absent a detailed statement from her former supervisor or 
3 
other person familiar with her work at I I the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
performance in this trainee or supporting position was nevertheless critical to the organization's or 
department's activities during her one-year tenure there. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked evidence relating to her role as a senior 
research associate at ________ She emphasizes that her response to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE) included several evidentiary exhibits intended to demonstrate she held a 
leading role within the university's ________________ between September 
2016 and September 2017. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of this employment, which included an internally-prepared position 
description for the senior research associate position from 2017; an October 2023 letter froml I 
I !Human Resources, confirming the Petitioner's dates of full-time employment as a 
senior research associate, her salary, and her job functions; a July 2016 letter from the director of the 
offering the Petitioner the position of 
"microbiologist" in the Research Laboratory; and a copy of her 2017 IRS Form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, issued by _______ 
This evidence indicates that the Petitioner was required to perform some supervisory and technical 
management functions as a senior research associate. For example, the letter provided by I I 
I Ihuman resources department states that, along with her performance of various technical and 
non-supervisory laboratory functions, she provided "supervisory and direct support of designated 
approved research efforts involving the __________ assisted in the training and 
supervision of graduate students and laboratory interns and provided operational supervision for the 
I I Research Laboratory "as needed." However, her job title and duties alone are 
insufficient to demonstrate how her role was in fact leading to the university or a division or 
department of the university. 
The Petitioner's own statements emphasize the supervisory aspects of her senior research associate 
role and the importance ofthe work performed by the laboratories operated by the ______ 
However, as noted by the Director in the RFE, this is one 
criterion where letters from individuals with personal knowledge of a petitioner's leading or critical 
role can be particularly helpful, so long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division or 
department was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
Here, the Petitioner did not submit this type of evidence. Neither the submitted position description, 
the letter from the university's human resources department, nor the job offer letter contained this level 
of detailed and probative information. Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner did not meet her 
burden to demonstrate that she held a leading or critical role as a senior research associate withl I 
I I Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she held a leading or critical role, 
we need not determine whether she worked for an organization ( or a department or division of an 
organization) that has a distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
4 
2. High Salary 
To satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Petitioner must demonstrate that her salary 
or remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others in the field. To determine whether 
a person's compensation is high relative to others, USCIS will consider comparative evidence, such 
as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate her eligibility under this criterion, 
noting that her supporting evidence was limited to a copy of one IRS Form W-2 and copies of several 
job offer letters. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked additional evidence she 
provided in response to the RFE. We have considered this additional evidence, and for the reasons 
discussed below, conclude that the record does not demonstrate she meets this criterion. 
The Petitioner initially submitted copies of offer letters and recommendation letters from I I and from her current employer, which stated her annual salaries with these employers. In 
the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that she should submit additional evidence of her salary 
or other remuneration, such as copies of her IRS Forms W-2 or 1099. The Director also informed the 
Petitioner that she should provide evidence that allows for a comparison between her compensation 
and that of others working in the field, such as geographic or position appropriate compensation 
surveys, media reports of notably high salaries in the field, or information from the U.S. Department 
of Labor (DOL). 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted: 
• Copies of her IRS Forms W-2 for the years 2017, 2019 and 2020. 
• An online article titled "Postdoc payday: Salaries for fellows are on the up" published by 
New Scientist on May 8, 2023. 
• An announcement issued by National Institutes of Health (NIH) on November 7, 2016, 
titled "Adjustment to Stipend Levels for Postdoctoral Trainees and Fellows on Ruth 
Kirschstein National Research Service Awards (NRSA)." 
• A letter from _______ informing the Petitioner that she would be receiving 
an annual salary of $51,360 in fiscal year 2019, an increase from $48,000 in 2018. 
• Copies of DOL Forms ET A 9035, Labor Condition Application for Nonirnrnigrant 
Workers (LCA ), previously submitted in support of H-1 B nonirnrnigrant petitions filed by 
I Ion the Petitioner's behalf in 2015 and 2018. 
• Postdoctoral salary information from Salary.corn. 
The Petitioner asserted this evidence demonstrates that her salary as a postdoctoral research associate 
has been consistently "above average." While the record may support that claim, the regulation 
requires that the Petitioner demonstrate that she has commanded a "high salary" or other significantly 
high remuneration in relation to others working in the same occupation and field, rather than an "above 
average" salary. 
The salary data published by New Scientist and NIH only reports figures for postdoctoral researchers 
employed by NTH and therefore does not provide a sufficient basis for comparison for similarly 
5 
employed workers in the field or in the Petitioner's specific geographic area. In addition, the entry­
level "level 1" prevailing wage data reported on the submitted DOL-certified LCAs similarly does not 
provide insight into what constitutes a "high salary" for similarly experienced workers in the 
Petitioner's field. 
The information the Petitioner submitted from Salary.com includes data that is specific to both the 
Petitioner's occupation and geographic area of employment. However, this data does not demonstrate 
that she has commanded a "high salary." This evidence states that the "average base salary" for a 
postdoctoral researcher inl ITexas is $48,025, but reports a range that extends up to $57,954. 
The Petitioner's last position located inl lpaid a salary that was closer to the "average" figure. 
Further, it appears that Salary.com relies on user-reported salary data, which may not provide a valid 
or accurate comparison, if, for example, too few users reported their salaries. 
In summation, while the Petitioner has documented her earnings as a postdoctoral research associate 
and provided some evidence in support of her claim that she has earned an above average salary, she 
did not demonstrate that she has earned a "high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" as 
required by the plain language of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Accordingly, she did not establish that 
she meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As noted, the Director discussed evidence the Petitioner submitted relating to five of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and concluded that she satisfied only one criterion. 
Based on the foregoing discussion, the Petitioner has demonstrated that she meets the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi) but has not demonstrated that she satisfies a third criterion as 
necessary to satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this classification under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). As a result, it is not necessary to provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
However, despite concluding that the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidence requirements, the 
Director included the following statement on the final page of the decision: 
USCIS has evaluated the evidence on an individual basis and determined that the evidence 
does establish that the [petitioner] meets at least three of the ten criteria found at 8 C.F.R. 
[§] 204.5(h)(3). USCIS has then examined the entire record and has determined that the 
[petitioner] is not one of that small percentage who have risen to the top of the field of 
endeavor. Furthermore, the evidence does not show that the [petitioner's] achievements 
set him [sic] significantly above almost all others in the field at a national or international 
level and does not establish sustained acclaim. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that this "final merits determination" was inadequate, as the Director 
did not explain why the evidence was insufficient to establish her sustained national or international 
acclaim and her placement among the small percentage at the top of her field of endeavor. However, 
when read in context with the preceding pages of the decision, the Director's statement that "the 
evidence does establish that the petitioner meets at least three of the ten criteria" appears to be a 
typographical error, rather than a conclusion that the Petitioner had in fact met the initial evidence 
6 
requirements for this classification. As such, the typographical error was, at most, harmless. See 
generally Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,350 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing cases regarding harmless 
or scrivener's errors). When read its entirety, the Director's decision clearly explained why the 
evidence did not establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As the Petitioner did not meet this requirement, the Director was not required to 
conduct a final merits determination. Thus, the Petitioner has not established that the Director's error 
was prejudicial to the outcome of her case. 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that 
the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. lO1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record 
does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in 
the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner 
has reviewed manuscripts, conducted research, published her work, joined associations in her field, 
and received some recognition from other researchers in the form of citations, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon of research scientists in 
her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 29, 2024 In Re: 33402128 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive in the pomegranate industry, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either through his 
receipt of a major internationally recognized award or by satisfying at least three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria set forth in the regulations. The Director further determined the Petitioner did not establish 
that his entry to the United States would offer substantial prospective benefits to the country. The 
matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can submit evidence of a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation establishing that they meet at least three 
of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that they meet these initial evidence requirements, we then consider 
the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 
2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022); Viscinscaia v. Beers, 4 F.Supp 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 
2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2dl339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner claims eligibility for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability based on his 
expertise "in the business of growing pomegranates." The record reflects that he has founded or co­
founded two commercial entities and an association in the pomegranate growing industry in his native 
country of Azerbaijan. In an affidavit submitted in support of the petition, the Petitioner states that he 
plans to continue his work in this field in the United States. Specifically, he indicates his intent to 
establish a pomegranate growing and breeding company, to import pomegranates and pomegranate 
products from Azerbaijan, and to consult with other pomegranate growers on industry best practices. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must show that he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to four of the regulatory 
criteria, including lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes, published material 
in professional publications or major media, original contributions of major significance in his field, 
and leading or critical roles for organizations that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v) and (viii). The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that he meets any of these four criteria or establish his eligibility through comparable evidence under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence intended to demonstrate that he has earned a high salary in 
relation to others in his field, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), but the Director declined to consider 
this claim. The Director noted that the Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion for the first 
time when responding to a request for evidence (RFE) and concluded that his claim represented a 
"material change" to the petition, emphasizing that the Petitioner must establishing eligibility at the 
time of filing. 
2 
Although the Petitioner submits a brief in support of the appeal, he does not address or contest the 
Director's determination that he did not meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to his 
receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes for excellence in his field, 
nor does he address the Director's determination that he could not establish eligibility through 
"comparable evidence" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, 
e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 
657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
In his brief, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or mischaracterized evidence submitted 
in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v) and (viii), and improperly declined to 
consider his claim that he meets the "high salary" criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
For the reasons discussed below, we conclude the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least 
three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
l. Published Materials 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), a petition must include "published material about 
the person in professional or major trade publications or other major media relating to the person's 
work in the field for which classification is sought." Any evidence submitted in support of this 
criterion "must include the title, date and author of the material and any necessary translation." 
Evidence may include documentation such as print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular 
or academic j oumal articles, books, textbooks or similar publications, or a transcription ofprofessional 
or major audio or video coverage of the person and the person's work. See generally 6 USCJS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (discussing how USCIS evaluates initial 
evidence of extraordinary ability under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x))). 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence related to several television appearances as well as one print 
article that appeared in Business Life, a magazine published in Azerbaijan. The Director determined 
that the evidence did not establish eligibility under this criterion, noting that the Petitioner did not 
provide transcripts of his television appearances. Further, with respect to the article in Business Life, 
the Director noted that the Petitioner did not provide evidence to establish that this source qualifies as 
a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that he did in fact provide transcripts for his television 
appearances in response to the RFE. He resubmits this evidence on appeal and asserts that he 
submitted sufficient documentation to satisfy this criterion. 
While the record supports the Petitioner's assertion that the Director overlooked his submission of 
transcripts for his televised media appearances, we conclude that he did not demonstrate his eligibility 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
First, with respect to the printed article in Business Life, the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the name and date ofthe publication. The evidence shows that this magazine is published 
by the Azerbaijani Entrepreneurs Confederation and may qualify as a professional or trade publication. 
3 
However, as noted by the Director in the RFE, the Petitioner did not submit a legible foreign language 
copy of the article to accompany the two-sentence English translation. The Petitioner's response to 
the RFE did not correct this deficiency. 
Based on the translation provided, it appears this special issue of the magazine 
included a section with congratulatory comments from members ofthe business community, including 
a brief statement from the Petitioner, who wrote, in part, "I take this opportunity to congratulate the 
entrepreneurs on their professional holiday and wish them success in their work." The provided 
excerpt from Business Life includes the Petitioner's photograph, and according to the translation, 
identifies him as executive director of the 
I I However, the published material appears to have been written by the Petitioner; the 
record does not establish that it is published material about him that relates to his work in his field. 
To document his television appearances, the Petitioner initially submitted six screenshots from what 
appeared to be six separate videos. A translation identified the source of one image as "Russia 1 
News." One of the still images has an "AzTV" logo, and two images appear to have been captured 
from the website www.Bandicam.com. However, the Petitioner did not provide the dates of the 
appearances, sufficiently identify and document the source of the videos (including the name of the 
broadcasters), or include transcriptions of the televised or online media appearances. 
In the RFE, the Director requested transcripts of the televised appearances and informed the Petitioner 
of his burden to provide documentary evidence of the materials' publication, the title and date of the 
publication, certified English translations, and evidence to demonstrate that the materials were 
published in major media or other qualifying media. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted the requested transcripts of the TV coverage, and indicated in a 
cover letter that he had one appearance on Russian television, four appearances on "Azeri TV," and 
one video posted on the website of the Head of the Kurdamir Region in Azerbaijan. The Petitioner 
also submitted a self-prepared document labeled as "Information re: TV stations." 
While the transcripts demonstrate that at least some of the televised appearances were about the 
Petitioner and related to his work in his field, the record does not include the required information 
regarding the dates of these appearances, nor does it sufficiently identify the name of the broadcaster 
for several appearances. As noted, the initial evidence identified the source of one video as "Russia l 
News" and another as "AzTV." The Petitioner re-submitted the same screenshots with handwritten 
notations indicating one appearance was aired by "CBC" and another by "ARB," but he submitted no 
further evidence to corroborate where or when these videos were broadcast. 
Further, the Petitioner did not provide adequate support for his claim that the materials appeared in 
major media or another qualifying type of media. In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a 
professional publication, major trade publication or other major media, relevant factors include the 
intended audience (for professional and major trade publications), and the relative circulation, 
readership or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). The Petitioner did not 
provide evidence that allows for an evaluation of these factors. 
4 
The document labeled "Information re: TV stations," contains one-sentence descriptions of the 
television channels "Russia-I," "AzTV," "CBC," "Lider TV," and "ARB." It does not include 
information regarding the relative viewership of these channels in support of the Petitioner's claim 
that they qualify as "major media" in Russia or Azerbaijan. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2. High Salary 
As noted, the Petitioner contends on appeal that the Director erroneously declined to consider evidence 
that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in his field, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The 
Director correctly noted that the Petitioner did not claim to meet this criterion at the time of filing. 
They did not consider the evidence related to this criterion, which the Petitioner submitted in response 
to the RFE, citing to Matter of Izummi, 21 I&N Dec. 169 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998) and Matter of 
Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 1971) to stand for the proposition that "a petitioner 
must establish eligibility at the time of filing" and a petition "cannot be approved at a future date after 
the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts." 
The evidence the Petitioner submitted in response to the RFE relates to the salary he earned in the 
years 2019 to 2021 and therefore did not represent a "new set of facts" that did not exist at the time of 
filing in May 2022. The Petitioner explained that he did not claim eligibility under this criterion at the 
time of filing because he did not yet have the comparative salary data needed to support his claim. We 
agree with his contention that the Director was not prohibited from considering evidence relating to 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) simply because he submitted it in response to the RFE. We will consider 
the Petitioner's evidence below. 
Evidence relevant to demonstrating high remuneration may include, but is not limited to tax returns, 
pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for services, along with comparative 
wage or remuneration data for the person's field, such as geographical and position-appropriate 
compensation surveys. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
In a memorandum accompanying the RFE response, the Petitioner stated he "enjoyed a much higher 
salary in the agrarian industry in Azerbaijan" between September 2019 and July 2021. He submitted 
an "extract from the Ministry of Taxes of Azerbaijan." This document, titled "Labor Agreement 
Notification on making changes to Labor Agreement," indicates that as of September 2019, the 
Petitioner's monthly salary for services rendered to the entity 
Production Cooperative as its "director, enterprise" was 6133.90 manat. The document indicates that 
this salary remained in effect as of July 2021. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the State Statistical Committee of the Republic of 
Azerbaijan, which provides data regarding the "average monthly nominal salary of salaried employees 
in the field of'Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing."' The average monthly salary listed is 3 71.4 manat 
for 2019 and 433.5 manat for 2020. 
5 
The Petitioner did not provide a justification for comparing his salary as the director and chief 
executive of a commercial enterprise in the agribusiness industry to the average monthly salary of all 
persons working in "agriculture, forestry and fishing" in Azerbaijan. When evaluating whether a 
comparison between a petitioner's documented remuneration and the remuneration in a salary survey 
or other source is accurate, USCIS may consider the scope of the surveyed occupations. Salary data 
that includes multiple occupations or multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to 
others in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). The Petitioner did not 
offer any comparative data for managerial or executive positions in his field or industry. Without this 
evidence, he has not supported his claim that he commanded a high salary in relation to others in the 
field. 
Accordingly, we conclude the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issues 
The record does not establish that the Petitioner meets either of the two evidentiary criteria discussed 
above. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), detailed discussion of the two remaining contested criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii) cannot change the outcome of the appeal. Similarly, because the Petitioner 
does not meet the initial evidence requirements, it is not necessary to determine whether the 
Petitioner's entry to the United States would offer substantial prospective benefits to the country under 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) ofthe Act. Therefore, we reserve and will not address these remaining issues. 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter ofD-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten regulatory criteria as required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 29, 2024 In Re: 33401016 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner stated that she accomplished numerous achievements in her field of expertise which have 
been recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
shown that she received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied 
five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations that require outstanding achievements 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (v), original contributions of major significance 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
The Director concluded she did not meet any of the claimed criteria and the Petitioner maintains on 
appeal that she meets the five claimed criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts the Director made 
numerous factual errors and referenced unrelated cases, which deprived her of a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision. She specifically states that the "repetitive and generic nature of the decision, 
which mirrors language used in other unrelated cases, suggests a lack of individualized assessment 
and a failure to provide a fair and thorough adjudication." The record supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Upon review, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the Director's decision did not adequately 
address all the claimed evidentiary criteria or analyze the evidence provided and did not fully explain 
the reasons the petition was denied. 
For example, in the denial's analysis of the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for 
memberships, the Director misstates the Petitioner's membership credentials as if she were part of the 
medical and radiology fields and discusses evidence not in the record when stating that the 
membership required her medical degree, evidence that she was a certified radiologist, and engaged 
in the active practice of neuroradiology. The Petitioner correctly notes that this information does not 
correspond to her documents regarding membership in organizations for the arts as a musician. While 
the Director does partially analyze the Petitioner's evidence at other points, this portion ofthe decision 
appears to reflect the contents of a different record of proceeding. 
In the denial's analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) regarding published material 
about the Petitioner, the Director instead outlines the requirements necessary to establish the criterion 
for membership. In addition, the Director does not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted in 
2 
support of this criterion with any specificity and instead summarily concluded that the evidence was 
insufficient. 
In the denial's analysis of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) regarding original contributions, 
the Director instead outlined the requirements for the criterion for judging. In addition, the Director 
stated that the Petitioner should show, in part, she was invited to "referee or judge a fight." Again, the 
Petitioner is a musician and did not present any evidence of acting as a referee or judge for a fight. 
Finally, although the Petitioner claimed the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Director 
failed to discuss it in the denial decision. On appeal, the Petitioner also noted several misstatements 
and factual errors in the Director's request for evidence. 
The Director's decision did not address the evidence the Petitioner submitted with specificity and 
improperly dismissed evidence without proper explanation. In addition, the factual errors show the 
Director's decision was based on evidence not in the record of these proceedings. When denying a 
petition, an officer shall explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denial to allow the petitioner a fair opportunity to contest 
the decision and our opportunity for meaningful appellate review. Cf Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 
786 (BIA 1994) (finding that an Immigration Judge must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion 
to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, 
the Director's errors deprived the Petitioner of a fair opportunity to appeal the denial and inhibit our 
ability to meaningfully review the denial on appeal. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. In doing so, the Director should also review the 
Petitioner's appellate brief, which further addresses the previously submitted evidence. 
As the Director did not conclude that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements, the decision 
did not include a final merits determination. If after review the Director determines that the Petitioner 
received a major, internationally recognized award or satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3), the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating 
whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national 
or international acclaim, that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 18851417 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an independent filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirement for the requested classification, the record did not establish that he 
enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and was among the small percentage of those at 
the top of his field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an independent filmmaker whose credits include theatrical feature films, short films, 
and documentary projects released in his native country of Zimbabwe. The record reflects that he has 
also directed and written concepts for music videos. He intends to continue writing, editing and 
directing films in the United States if his petition is granted. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) relating to lesser awards, published material about him and his work, 
his participation as a judge of the work of others, and display of his work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's short film I I received a~------~Award ) I ~ for in 2013 awarded b the National Arts Council 
of Zimbabwe. This film also earned him the.__ _______ -r--,_____,Award at thel I 
International Film Festival! lin 2011, and was screened at the that same year. In 2017, he 
produced! I, a feature film expanding on the original short film by the same name, which 
won multiple awards and was also screened at then and at several additional festivals. The record 
also contains evidence demonstrating that he wo~ I at C=1 in 2006, as well as the I lforl lin 2016. Accordingly, we agree that the submitted evidence establishes 
that the Petitioner meets the awards and display criteria. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted numerous articles published in major media discussing his work 
and accomplishments, as well as evidence that he judged the work of others in his field as the head 
juror for thel I We concur with the Director's determination that the Petitioner also satisfies the 
judging and published material criteria. Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he fulfills at 
2 
least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
The Petitioner is an independent filmmaker who has also worked as a music video writer and director. 
The record as a whole reflects that he has become a respected figure in Zimbabwe's film industry, but 
does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Preliminarily, we note that on appeal, the Petitioner submits a copy of an updated Form I-140, 
Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, that updates his claimed job title to 'I I Film Maker." 
The Petitioner indicates that the Director unfairly considered the Petitioner in the context of 
filmmakers as a whole, when in fact he should be compared to the I lof I I I I when determining whether he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The Petitioner requests that we accept this new job title and associated duties, and 
supplements the appeal with additional evidence for consideration in support of this assertion. 
While the Petitioner's assertions are noted, we will not consider these new claims in our review of the 
appeal. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
If significant changes are made to the initial request for approval, the Petitioner must file a new petition 
rather than seek approval of a petition that is not supported by the facts in the record. 1 Although the 
Petitioner attempts to submit an updated Form I-140 to reflect its change in job title, he is not permitted 
to make material changes to a petition, to its claims, or to the evidence in an effort to make an apparently 
deficient petition conform to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) requirements. See 
Matter of lzummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 175 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). The Petitioner's initial filing does not 
describe the job title as I O I film maker" or provide any details of the! ~ field 
of endeavor. Consequently, we will only consider the claims and evidence the Petitioner presented before 
the Director. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has worked on four feature films, several short films, and 
approximately 40 short documentary videos since 2006, usually as a writer and director. Although 
this demonstrates the Petitioner's lengthy career in filmmaking, longevity in the industry, however, is 
not the same as sustained national or international acclaim. 
1 Rather than file a new petition, the Petitioner seeks to amend the cunent petition on appeal. The Petitioner stated that 
"[s]ince we are not filing a new 1-140, we are not including a new filing fee since [the Petitioner] has previously paid it in 
his original filing." 
3 
Based on the submitted evidence, the Petitioner is best known for his feature film,I I which 
he comp)eted in 2]117. The Petitioner's film on which he served as writer director and editor won I _Film at the and Feature at the Film 
Festival in 2017, as well as.__ ____ _. at the.__ _____ ~International Film Festival in 
I lin 2018. Although his receipt of these awards received press coverage in outlets such as 
The Herald and H-Metro, such media coverage does not establish that winning such awards results in 
sustained national or international acclaim for the award recipient. While the Petitioner received his 
awards forl I in 2017 and 2018, the record does not demonstrate that he directed another 
feature film or received any additional nominations or awards for his film and music video projects in 
subsequent years. Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence demonstrating that in late 2019, he was selected to participate 
in an American television documentary entitled 1~---~t' a series that featured[] filmmakers from D countries, of all whom werd I The series consisted otO episodes, with one episode 
dedicated to each filmmaker, and the Petitioner was selected to represent Zimbabwe. The director of 
the project,! I indicated in a letter that in addition to featuring the Petitioner in the 
series, she also selected him to be a special guest at thel IFilm Festival inl I 2020, 
which was ultimately cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
The Petitioner relies on this project as evidence of his ongoing career and his sustained acclaim in the 
field, noting that his invitation to participate in the series and attend thel I Film Festival as 
an "honored guest" demonstrated continued interest in his work. He further noted that had he attended 
this festival, he undoubtedly would have received significant media attention, both internationally and 
in Zimbabwe.2 While we note that the Petitioner's selection to participate in this project is an honor, 
we note that he was simply the subject of another filmmaker's project and not engaged in the writing, 
directing, or editing of the series. Moreover, the record is devoid of evidence demonstrating that this 
project was actually completed and televised, give~ l's indication that this was a "current" 
project at the time her letter was submitted. We are unable to determine whether the segment featuring 
the Petitioner in this series was actually completed, and if so, whether it highlighted his film 
achievements and his impact upon the industry, or merely described his talents and abilities as a 
filmmaker. Absent such evidence, his selection to appear in this series does not establish that he was 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field as contemplated by Kazarian. 
The Petitioner was awarded! !Award forl lin 2006, and thell 
I !Award and thd If~ I lin 2011 and 2013, respectively. There is no indication, however, that the Petitioner has since 
2 The record contains minimal evidence pertaining to the6 I fjhr Festival, and we therefore afford minimal 
weight to this assertion. The Petitioner submitt¢...a...kll,er fro .__ ___ ~ the festival's executive director, confirming 
the Petitioner's invitation to attend the festival inl__J2020. He states that the festival, "now in id I, is a globally 
recognized international film festival that thrives to bring creative voices from around the world to the big screen and an 
international audience," and that it has premiered many Oscar-nominated films. Aside from this letter, and a screenshot 
of the ferival's webre noting its cancellation due to COVTD-19, there is no evidence supporting these statements. 
Although.__ __ ___,claims that the festival premiered "many" Oscar-nominated films, he only identified one such film 
by name. The record contains no documentation or other independent evidence corroborating the claims set forth in his 
letter, nor is there evidence demonstrating that the festival is routinely attended by influential industry members or that his 
participation in the festival would have garnered significant media attention as he claims. 
4 
written, directed or produced another short film since the release o~ I in 2011. While these 
awards are admirable and demonstrate his recognition in the area of short filmmaking, standing alone 
they are not evidence that the Petitioner has extraordinary ability as an independent filmmaker whose 
work encompasses a wide range of genres including feature films, short films and documentaries. 
While his awards for his short films are acknowledged, they alone do not establish that the Petitioner 
has sustained national or international acclaim or that he has attained the status as one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner's work has appeared at several film festivals, which the Director recognized by granting 
the criterion related to artistic display. But the Petitioner has not established the significance of these 
particular festivals or shown that the festival appearances particularly highlighted the Petitioner's 
involvement in the films in a manner that would reflect or contribute to acclaim. Display of the 
Petitioner's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases consists of screenings of his short 
filmsl I and at thec=J in 2006 and 2011, respectively; screening of his music 
video at th tions in 2013; and screening 
of his feature film.__ ___ ~at the in 2018 and th .__ ___ __,Awards Gala in 2019. As it 
is expected that filmmakers would exhibit their artistic work in front of audiences, we will evaluate 
the extent to which the display of the Petitioner's work is reflective of acclaim consistent with this 
classification. 
While this evidence demonstrates that his films received additional recognition in the independent 
film field, the record contains little information regarding these festivals. Although the Petitioner 
submitted evidence demonstrating that 150 films and filmmakers attended thel !Awards 
Gala, this evidence, and the minimal evidence submitted relating to the remaining festivals, does not 
indicate that any of the festivals were attended by influential industry members. Further, the Petitioner 
has not established that the selection of his film for these festivals resulted in significant media 
attention or otherwise resulted in national or international recognition. This evidence falls short of 
representing the Petitioner as one who has established sustained acclaim or that he has attained the 
status as one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor. 
The record contains comparatively little evidence regarding the Petitioner's other film projects, which 
include numerous documentary shorts for various humanitarian organizations including thel I I I and I I As constituted, the record lacks sufficient independent evidence of the 
recognition he received or the exact role he played in these projects. With respect to the 
documentaries, it is unclear when, where or in what capacity these projects were released and how 
they were received by audiences and critics, as man of them were documented in the record solely 
through submission of captioned screenshots. who worked with the Petitioner while 
he performed documentary work for the.__ ______________________ _. 
states that the Petitioner "is a great storyteller with a unique ability to understand project objectives 
and translate them into impactfol stories." However, as noted, the record contains little independent 
evidence of the Petitioner's work on documentary films produced for thel I or other 
humanitarian organizations, or the attention he received for this work, to corroborate its claimed 
impact and influence on the Zimbabwean and international film industries. 
Overall, during his 14-year career in his field, the Petitioner has established that he directed one 
award-winning feature film that garnered him national attention in Zimbabwe when it was first 
5 
released and when screened at international festivals in 2017 and 2018. His previous projects, the 
short filmsl I andl I also garnered some local media coverage in Zimbabwe. 
While these projects are noteworthy accomplishments for the Petitioner as a filmmaker, the evidence 
does not establish that they are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work" or that receiving the 
documented level of recognition for three projects during a 14-year career demonstrates a level of 
success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has also submitted testimonial letters that summarize and discuss the Petitioner's 
contributions in the field as a filmmaker. Most of these letters simply recount the Petitioner's career 
history and praise his work rather than offer specific examples of the Petitioner's impact on the field. 
For example,! I Co-Founder ofl I states that "it goes without saying that 
[The Petitioner] has indeed garnered a spot at the top echelon of filmmakers in Zimbabwe and 
internationally." Similarly, a letter froml I a U.S. film producer, discusses his hybrid 
talent as "a director, editor, cinematographer, creative producer, writer, assistant director, and film 
festival jury president," noting that "it is truly unique in this industry for a filmmaker to possess 
extraordinary abilities across different genres of film." I I an actor and filmmaker 
in Zimbabwe, states "I have worked with the likes of Christopher Lee, Sharon Stone, Danny Glover, 
and two time Oscar winner Denzel Washington and Oscar winner Kevin Kline. [The Petitioner] holds 
the same dedication to excellence that I have witnessed in these Hollywood greats." While each of 
these individuals commends the Petitioner's work, they have not established that his work, or any of 
his films, were particularly influential in the Zimbabwean or international film industry such that they 
had an impact of major significance3 in the overall field that contributed to his national or international 
acclaim. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's evidence, we take into account the probative analysis that experts may 
provide in opinion letters regarding the significance of an individual's contributions of major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a Petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance in the field and their impact on subsequent work add value, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not. 4 While the referenced letters praise the Petitioner's 
talents, accomplishments, and broad experience, they are not sufficiently detailed to support a 
conclusion that he has made impactfol or influential contributions to his field reflecting a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" garnering the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Regarding the Petitioner's experience judging the work of others, an evaluation of this practice is 
acceptable under Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-11, to determine if such evidence is indicative of the 
extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. The record reflects that the 
Beneficiary was the head juror for the~in 2010, which was a 10-day festival where the Petitioner 
and a panel of jurors screened 26 feature films, 18 short films, and 27 documentaries submitted from 
over 20 countries. Although the Petitioner submitted information regarding some of the winning films, 
the record contains no additional information regarding the festival or the manner in which the awards 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met the original contributions criterion because she did not corroborate her impact 
in the field as a whole). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
6 
were bestowed, and does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national recogmt10n in the 
field based on his work as a judge in this competition. The record contains minimal background 
information regarding the nature or scope of the 2010 competition, or the level of recognition 
associated with being selected as a judge, and there is no indication that he was selected to serve as a 
judge or juror for similar festivals prior or subsequent to this single appointment. As a result, we 
cannot determine that the Petitioner's judging activities reflect that he is one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Considered in its totality, the evidence in the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary is a talented 
filmmaker who is well-respected within Zimbabwe based on his broad experience in the film industry. 
While his experience is wide-ranging and includes several notable accomplishments, the Petitioner 
has not shown that his artistic achievements at this point of his career, in any one area or as a whole, 
are indicative of one who has risen to the very top of his field of endeavor with sustained national or 
international acclaim, as required. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, after analysis 
of the totality of the evidence, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17202685 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artisan, photographer, and fashion designer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
meet the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification through evidence of either a 
major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal I as well as three subsequent motions.2 
The matter is now before us on a fourth motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion the to reconsider. 
Because the Petitioner has established that she meets a third criterion, the motion to reopen is granted 
in part and dismissed in part. The petition remains denied. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 See Matter of O-S-, ID# 1291424 (AAO Jul. 5, 2018) 
2 See Matter ofO-S-, ID# 2000787 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019); In Re 5303295 (AAO Jan. 16, 20202); In Re 10599841 (AAO 
Sep. 24, 2020). In February 2019 decision, we concluded that the Petitioner met a second criterion, leading or critical role 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of newfacts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for 
the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal, but to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artisan, photographer, and fashion designer who usd I as the focus of her 
work. In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met only the criterion relating to the 
display of her work under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). After review of her first motion, we concluded 
2 
that she also met a second criterion for her leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In her last two motions, the Petitioner submitted new evidence in support of her qualification under 
the criteria relating to published material about her and a high salary in relation to others in her field, 
but in both cases we concluded that the new evidence was insufficient to show that she met either 
criteria. 
Here, in her fourth motion, she submits additional evidence in support of those two criteria as well the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), relating to original contributions of major significance. 
However, our previous decision did not consider her qualification under this criterion, as she did not 
submit new evidence relating to this criterion with her third motion or state any reasons for 
reconsideration of her qualification under this criterion. 3 We will therefore not consider the new 
evidence or her assertions of error at prior stages of the proceeding with regard to this criterion. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner checked box l .fin Part 2 of Form I-290B to indicate that she is filing a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. However, in her brief the Petitioner only includes a section titled 
"Basis for Motion to Reopen," and does not assert that our previous decision was incorrect based on 
the evidence ofrecord at the time of that decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, she has not 
met the requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner first addresses her claim to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published 
material about her and her work in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
With this motion, she submits new evidence relating to a previously submitted article published in the 
magazine Photographer inl 1 12014. We concluded in our previous decision that although this 
article was about her and her work as a photographer, the record did not establish that the magazine 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. The new evidence includes 
an article indicating that the author of the Photograr her article received the top prize in a photography 
contest, as well as a letter in which I _ a fashion and beauty photographer, describes 
Photographer as a "professional magazine." However, she also submits the same presentation about 
the magazine which was submitted with her previous motion, in which its target audience is described 
as "amateur photographers." This contradictory evidence therefore does not establish that it qualifies 
as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
In addition, the Petitioner points to the index page of Photographer, which states that it is an "Official 
magazine~------------------~ inl I' and submits webpages 
with short descriptions of both organizations. The evidence regarding! I does not explain any 
relationship with the magazine, or how~ such relationship would show it to be a professional 
magazine. Similarly, the evidence aboutL_j indicates that it is a federation of national photographic 
associations, but does not verify or explain any relationship with Photographer. 
3 The Petitioner's most recent mention of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) occurred in her first combined motion. 
in which she specifically stated that she was not submitting additional evidence to meet this criterion. 
3 
The Petitioner also submits evidence about the circulation of several fashion magazines, which appears 
to have been taken from a Vogue Ukraine presskit, and asserts that since it shows that Marie Claire 
has a circulation less than that of Photographer and "is a major media and a competitor," then 
Photographer should be considered as major media." However, these figures do not support either 
magazine's status as a major medium in the Ukraine market, since Marie Claire's are by far the lowest 
of the magazines shown. Further, these circulation figures are for fashion magazines only, and any 
comparison between their circulation figures does not lead to the conclusion that Photographer should 
be considered to be a professional magazine. 
The Petitioner also submits for the first time copies of two articles from Vogue Ukraine, published in I 12013 anO 2014. The latter article, titled I I' reports on the opening of a perfume 
store in D Ukraine, but focuses mainly on the Petitioner and her photos one of which is used in 
the decor of the store. The interviewer asks her about her connection with and her hoto ra h 
of them. The earlier article mentions the Petitioner as a member of a jury for a.__ ______ ___, 
competition, but the article is about the competition. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner also submits print readership figures from a Vogue Ukraine 
presskit, which compares the readership of Vogue Ukraine to three other fashion magazines in Ukraine 
from 2013 to 2019 and cites to an outside source for these figures. According to this information, the 
readership of this magazine was well ahead of the other well-known fashion titles at the time of the 
c=]201
14 puf1ication and at the time of the filing of this petition. Therefore, we conclude that based 
upon the 2014 article in Vogue Ukraine, the Petitioner has established that she meets the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Further, the Petitioner has included additional evidence with her motion, including an interview of her 
on the website photoindustria.ru, and a contract and invoices related to the Petitioner's design of0 I I for a customer. Although the Petitioner also asserts that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix) relating to a high salary or very high remuneration compared to others in her field, she 
has now met the requisite three criteria to meet the initial evidentiary requirements of this 
classification. Therefore, we will consider this evidence together with the balance of the record when 
conducting a final merits determination. 
C. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
As noted at the outset, the Petitioner describes herself as a photographer, artisan, and fashion designer, 
and has submitted some evidence relevant to each of these pursuits. Because the bulk of the evidence 
concerns her work as a photographer, we will primarily focus on this aspect of her endeavor in our 
analysis. We note that over the course of these proceedings, the Petitioner has submitted several 
documents relating to events which took place after the initial filing of her petition on August 7,2017. 
However, a petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
4 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(I). 
We will therefore not consider such evidence in our analysis. 
The evidence relating to the Petitioner's work as a photographer shows that it has been exhibited on 
two occasions in Ukraine. The first exhibition, titler I I occurred on I I and D 2007 inl Pkraine (known at the time as_ I.) The evidence regarding this 
exhibition includes announcements naming the Petitioner and another artist, photographs of the event, 
and still images of two interviews, together with transcripts of these short interviews by provided by 
the Petitioner. We first note that it is not apparent that the first interview was broadcast on television 
channelO despite the Petitioner's statement and the logo that can be seen on the interviewer's 
microphone, as the source of the images is not apparent. More importantly, even if it was broadcast 
or posted online, the information from Private TVI !indicates that it broadcasts only in that local 
area. 
Similarly, still images submitted from a second video interview of the Petitioner at this event indicate 
that it was done for a program named ' which the record shows is broadcast on television 
channelOanother local or regional channel in.__ __ -,--,_ _ __, However, the video images were 
taken from the Petitioner's Y ouTube account, not channel s. This evidence does not show that this 
interview was either broadcast or distributed in any other way by channelD 
The record shows that print media discussion of this exhibition was also local in nature, as shown by 
a paragraph published in th~ I 2008 issue of Ajisha magazine. The magazine's cover indicates 
that it focuses on events and entertainment in I I and no farther information regarding its 
circulation was provided. Considered together with the video interviews, this evidence does not show 
that the Petitioner gained acclaim beyond I I to the national or international level as a result of 
this exhibition of her photographs. 
The second exhibition of the Petitioner's I I photography,~-------~ occurred at 
th~ I Museum froml I 2017. This is supported by a letter from the museum, 
an announcement and poster about the exhibition, and a brief video report about the exhib~ted 
to the You Tube channel I t The Petitioner submitted information about L___Jbut 
as noted in one of our previous decisions, this was not sufficient to show that it is major media and 
this would have suggested national acclaim. We further note that the screenshots of this video indicate 
that it had been viewed only 23 times at the time, which does not indicate that coverage of this exhibit 
drew wide interest from the public or in the field of photography. Other evidence of media coverage 
of this event included several brief mentions in online blogs. As with the Petitioner's first exhibition 
held 10 years earlier, the totality of the evidence does not show extensive media coverage which would 
signal acclaim for the Petitioner's work at the national or international level. 
We further note that, in a second letter from thel lofthel I Museum, she 
states that the exhibition "was attended by a total of 2,690 viewers, photographers and art collectors, 
which highly praised the collection," and that 6 of the 17 photographs that were exhibited were 
purchased by private collectors. However, there is no indication of whether this was an exceptional 
number of visitors over a two-week period, or whether the number of photographs sold or the amount 
paid reflected a status for the Petitioner as one of the small percentage of photographers at the top the 
field. 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of the display of her photographs in non-artistic settings, 
including a cafe i~ I which was a finalist for a national restaurant award, and a small chain of 
perfume stores in five cities in Ukraine. Letters from the owners of both of these businesses confirm 
that her work decorates their establishments, and they are supported with photographs. In addition, 
ther-----iio14 Vogue Ukraine article discussed above covers the opening of one of the I I 
c==]perfume stores irC::]Ukraine, and states that the Petitioner's photographs "decorate almost 
all the boutiques of this chain." This evidence shows that she has been able to sell herl I 
photographs commercially, and that this work has been mentioned in major, national media on at least 
one occasion. But it does not demonstrate that her work was acclaimed in the field of photography. 
Images of her work as a photographer have also appeared in publications, including the cover of Oscar 
Millionaires Flair magazine for issues published in~------------~ 2010, as well 
as in pages of those and other issues of this magazine. The editor in chief of this magazine stated in a 
letter that the Petitioner partnered with the magazine to provide her prints and write some articles, and 
the record includes information about the circulation of Oscar Millionaires Flair from its own website. 
As we noted in previous decisions in this matter, this evidence, as well as that concerning the magazine 
domus design in which images of her photographs also appeared, did not show that either magazine 
could be considered as a professional or major medium. While she was credited with this work in 
both magazines, the record does not establish that these depictions of her work were indicative of 
acclaim in her field, or brought her further acclaim as a photographer. 
Similarly, as described above, the Petitioner's photographic work was also featured in thec=]2014 
issue of the Ukrainian magazine Photographer. While the evidence indicates that this publication is 
focused on the field of photography, and the accompanying article is complementary of the Petitioner's 
work, we noted above that it is not a professional magazine, and its circulation figures were not 
independently verified. As such, this article shows that the Petitioner's photographs received some 
level of attention in her field at the amateur level. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner submitted an article for the first time with this motion which was 
published on the website photoindustria.ru onl 1201 7, one week before the filing of the instant 
petition. We note that this article, which is an interview of the Petitioner about her work as a 
photographer, does not show the name of its author, and the record does not include information about 
this website other than a brief report from SimilarWeb. Given this lack of supporting information, 
this evidence is of minimal probability. 4 
The Petitioner's work as a photographer also ties in,.u..,....J.J.J.:.L....L.,;J..a.1.LU...."'-'"-""-,l_ashion designer. The record 
includes evidence showing the marketing and sale of and other items featuring her 
photographs and otherl !designs under the " brand, primarily on websites 
such as teespring.com, redbubble.com, and etsy.com. owner of a boutique inl I 
4 We further note that many of the questions asked of the Petitioner in this interview include statements which mirror the 
language of the regulations for this classification. For instance, "You are one of a rare percentage of photographers who 
have extraordinary talent in photography" closely mirrors the definition of "extraordinary ability" at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of 
proof. Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 10729, *1, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). These statements are also not suppo11ed 
by documentary evidence in the record. 
6 
writes in a letter that her store sold the Petitioner's dresses and tee shirts, and that they were "top 
sellers at our store." The record includes a list of invoices for the sale of pictures, clothing, and other 
items, including some for purchases byl I as well as a small number of those invoices and 
associated receipts, but does not include audited financial statements or tax returns for either the 
Petitioner or her business which might serve to verify these documents and any commercial success 
they may have enjoyed. Further, even ifl ~s statement regarding the sales success of the 
Petitioner's clothing was supported by documentary evidence, this evidence from a single boutique 
would not be sufficient to show acclaim for the Petitioner's work on a broader level. 
Other letters were submitted from individual purchasers ofl I clothing items, including I ~ a buyer for a boutique inl I an~ I who states that she serves 
as the I for the Petitioner's brand. Although these writers and others complement the 
Petitioner's clothing designs and indicate that they enjoy their purchases, such statements do not show 
that Petitioner's status as a top fashion designer. 
The Petitioner' sD clothing designs were also featured in one article in the D 20 l 2 issue of the 
previously mentioned Oscar Millionaires Flair, which introduces herl lbrand and 
includes 4 pictures of a model wearing her dresses. But as previously noted, the Petitioner has not 
shown that this magazine is a professional magazine in the fields of either photography or fashion, and 
that such an article would therefore reflect an elevated or prestigious standing in either field. 
The record also includes evidence of the Petitioner's work as an interior designer, generally using her 
photographs to decorate interiors or as part of a design theme. An example of this includes the 
previously mentioned cafe, which the owner indicates the Petitioner also decorated with framed 
postcards, handmade! I, and a chandelier with~--------~ Another 
example is the article in thd I 2006 issue of domus design, in which she is credited as one of two 
designers for a small apartment. The Petitioner also submitted design prlposalsl and a 201 7 Form 
l 099 showing that she completed work for a bedroom design, including incorporating her I I photography. This evidence verifies that she has infrequently worked as an interior designer, 
but does not show national or international level acclaim for this work. 
Turning to the Petitioner's work as an artisan, pages from her Etsy account show that she created and 
sold I l ::tnd similar items asl I an§s letter indicates that these items were 
also sold along with her tee shirts and dresses at the boutique. A letter from I I 
Creative Director of the I !Museum in Korea, explains that she discovered the 
Petitioner's Etsy account in 2014 and purchased about 50 of thesec=J for display. Considered 
together, the letters establish that the Petitioner has made and sold thesec=J andl I, but does 
not show this activity led to acclaim for her as an artisan. 
The Petitioner has also submitted evidence which she asserts show her earnings from all of the 
activities described above, as well as evidence which she asserts shows that her earnings are high when 
compared to others working in these fields, thus showing that she is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of these fields. As we have noted in our previous decisions, the invoices, receipts, and 
unaudited financial statements submitted are not verifiable evidence of the Petitioner's remuneration. 
In addition, the Petitioner has not established that her earnings of $9800 for the design of a client's 
7 
bedroom, as shown on her 2017 Form 1099, is sufficient to show that her compensation is indicative 
of a status as one of small percentage of interior designers at the top of the field. 
The record further includes a contract between the Petitioner and her current husband dated! I 
D2015, in which he is to provide her with "financial support," as well as invoices indicating that the 
Petitioner received payments in Ukrainian hryvnia under this contract on three occasions. However, 
the source of these payments is not apparent, and this evidence does not demonstrate that these three 
invoices reflect remuneration received by the Petitioner for her work as a photographer, fashion and 
interior designer and artisan. 
The totality of the evidence discussed above shows that the Petitioner has gained some amount of 
notoriety as a photographer and a fashion designer, with two artistic exhibitions of her work primarily 
drawing the attention of local media. She has also had some success in selling her photography for 
commercial settings, and in creating and selling clothing based upon her photographs. However, she 
seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their 
respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCTS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The petition will therefore remain denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is granted in part and dismissed in part. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21655336 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the hospitality industry, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner founded al I franchise in Ukraine in 2011. He entered the United States in 2017 
as a B-1 nonimmigrant visitor for business, and changed to 0-1 status in 2021 to work as global business 
development manager for smartphone app developer! 1 In a volunteer position as Chief 
Innovation Officer of the I I be co-founded "the 
innovation arm of I The Petitioner has also advised the I J and 
I lat the University 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only one of the criteria, pertaining to judging the work 
of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal 
requirements" to satisfy the other four claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied one additional criterion 
relating to judging and published material, for a total of two criteria. 2 We will discuss the other 
claimed criteria below. 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 nonimmigrant status relates to extmordina1y ability. Nevertheless, the record of proceeding 
for the approvednonimmigrant petition is not before us, and we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the 
same as those in the present proceeding, or whether the nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. The Petitioner 
submitted a copy of USC TS Policy Alert PA-2021-05, Deference to Prior Determinations of Eligibility in Requests for 
Extensions of Petition Validity (Apr. 27, 2021 ), https://www.uscis.gov/news/ale1is, but that policy ale1i only address 
extensions of the validity of nonimmigrant petitions; it does not indicate that adjudicators of immigrant petitions owe 
deference to prior approvals of roughly analogous nonimmigrant petitions. The cited policy alert does not state or imply 
that the approval of an 0-1 nonimmigra nt petition creates a presumption of eligibility for immigrant classification as an 
individualofexttaordinary ability. 
2 The Directordeterminedthatanarticle from the UkminianeditionofForbeslackedan author credit and publication date 
as required by 8 C.F .R. § 204 .5(h)(3 )(iii). The Petitioner states on appeal that he had submitted this information, and the 
record confirms thathe submitted a letter from the magazine's editor containing that information. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims to have satisfied this criterion because the Ukrainian edition of Forbes named him 
among their I I entrepreneurs who have achieved success before age 30, and My Kharkov 
ranked him among the ___________________________ 
I I 
The Director requested more evidence to show that the articles described above constitute prizes or 
awards. In response, the Petitioner resubmitted the My Kharkov article, and a letter from the "Chief 
Redactor" of the Ukrainian edition of Forbes. That official refers to I but the 
accompanying printouts from the U.S. website of Forbes refer only to the I , lnot award. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that recognition in these 
publications amounts to prizes or awards. On appeal, the Petitioner disputes this conclusion but offers no 
specific rebuttal. He states the conclusion that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal requirements," 
but makes no argument to supp01i that conclusion. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he received any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field. As noted above, we have already concluded that the Forbes article 
satisfies the separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) relating to published material. 
Asse1iions about the prestige of inclusion in Forbes's I I list would have been considered in 
the context of a final merits determination, if the proceeding had reached that point. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international expe1ts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that he meets this criterion because he is the Chieflnnovation Officer of the 
and because of "[s]election to represent the hospitality industry in the exclusive invite only I I I program atl !University." The Petitioner submitted no evidence to establish 
that thel lprogram is an association in the field, and the Petitioner submitted no 
further evidence about the program in response to a request for evidence. 
A printout from thel !website confirms the Beneficiary's position there, but the Petitioner has not 
established thatc=]membership conforms to the regulation by requiring outstanding achievements of 
its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. The leadership is not, 
itself, an association in the field. 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted documentary evidence, 
such as bylaws, to establish that the requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. On appeal, the Petitioner 
states, without elaboration, that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal requirements." 
3 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof with respect to this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In his initial submission, the Petitioner cited four submitted exhibits as evidence of his qualifying 
contributions. First, a blog published on the website of the Wall Street Journal spotlights thel J 
at one of the Petitioner's clubs, which "offers complimentary drinks [in exchange] for a variety of 
social media activities." The blog post does not ref er to this innovation as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, and the Petitioner has not submitted other evidence of such significance, such as, 
for example, showing that the hospitality industry has wide ly adopted a similar policy of bartering social 
media mentions for drinks. 3 He indicated that thel Japp facilitates similar transactions for other 
bars, but the record does not establish the significance of that app. For example, the Petitioner has not 
established widespread use of the app. 
The second cited exhibit is a 2019 article from Bar & Restaurant, with the title I 
I I The article indicates that the and a venture 
capital firm called lwere collaborating on a startup incubator. The article describes the 
process for selecting candidate companies, but does not demonstrate that, or explain how, the project itself 
is of major significance in the field. The article states that the impetus behind the project is to spur 
innovation in the hospitality industry, but it does not indicate that the project has already led to such 
innovation. Rather, it states that the first fruits of the project would be presented at a trade show that, at 
the time of publication, had not yet occurred. 
The third cited exhibit is a letter from the directorof at Ide scribing 
the Petitioner's "cooperation with on projects aimed at improving technology 
opportunities forthe hospitality industry." The letter indicates that Intel named the Petitioner as its advisor 
with regard to "development of innovative hardware solutions for various venues in the hospitality 
industry worldwide." As with the article described above, the letter does not identify any specific 
innovations or projects. Rather, the letter indicates that the Petitioner "has already connected with 
12 other hardware development companies." From the letter, it is not entirely clear what the Petitioner's 
claimed original contribution is. In the absence of other information or evidence in support, acting as a 
volunteer advisor is not inherently an original contribution. 
Finally, the Petitioner submits a letter from the executive director of which 
"teaches entrepreneurship skills for future professionals in the Hospitality sector." The letter indicates 
that the Petitioner "provides his invaluable expertise and allows us to attract some of the best innovators," 
but the Petitioner has not established how this is significant to the greater field outside of I 
In a request for evidence, the Director stated that the Petitioner's initial submission provided "broad 
attestations" but not "specific examples of original contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance." 
3 The blog post dates from 2014, seven years before the filing of the petition, and therefore there has been ample time for 
other establishments to adopt similar practices, and for evidence of such adoption to accumulate. 
4 
In response, the Petitioner submitted a letter from an official of which 
organizes "the biggest nightclub and bar show in the world." The letter states that the Petitioner "has 
incubated and then introduced us to several successful startups ... that disrupted our industry in the most 
positive sense. I believe their success would not be possible without [the Petitioner's] unique system of 
scaling and providing the market access to these startups." The letter names several of these startups, but 
does not provide fmther details or corroborating evidence. Even if these startups have, themselves, made 
an impact on the hospitality industty, it does not necessarily follow that the Petitioner's involvement in 
the incubation process is, itself, a contribution of major significance in the field. The Petitioner does not 
provide details about his "unique systems" or establish, for example, that his systems have resulted in 
greater success for the startups involved. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not identified specific original 
contributions or provided details to show the major significance of those contt·ibutions. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that his evidence "satisfies the applicable legal requirements," but he does not 
elaborate or identify any specific error by the Director in this regard. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994 ). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. Seesection203(b)(l)(A)oftheActand8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record indicates that the Petitioner owned successful I I in Ukraine, and that he has been 
active in incubating hospitality businesses in the United States, but while we acknowledge a level of 
success, it does not demonstrate sustained national or international acclaim. The record refers to the 
Petitioner's most recent work in the United States in terms of its potential, rather than its existing 
impact. Speculation about what could result from the Petitioner's ongoing work is not an adequate 
basis for granting the extremely restrictive immigrant classification the Petitioner seeks. The record 
does not show sustained recognition and attention outside of entities where he has worked as an 
employee, consultant, or volunteer. We note that his 0-1 nonimmigrant status is contingent on his 
5 
employment with but the record contains minimal information about the company and his 
work there. 
The Petitioner's statement on appeal identifies only one specific error by the Director, which we have 
taken into account in the above discussion. The general, blanket assertion that his evidence "satisfies 
the applicable legal requirements" does not rebut or overcome the Director's other adverse findings. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
dismiss the appeal for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 20612244 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition in 2019. We dismissed the 
Petitioner's appeal in March 2020, concluding that the evidence did not confirm his receipt of a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award), and did not show that he met at 
least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As such, he did not establish 
eligibility to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In May 2020, the Petitioner filed a Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating on Part 2, 
that he was filing "an appeal to the AAO [ Administrative Appeals Office]" and that he would "submit 
[his] brief and/or additional evidence to the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal." He 
also indicated on Part 7 of the Form I-290B that he was "filing a motion to reopen & motion to 
reconsider ," and requesting additional time to file his statement and documents in support of his 
combined motions (first motion filing). In June 2020, the Petitioner submitted a statement and 
additional evidence in support of his first motion filing.1 In October 2020, we dismissed his first 
motion filing, explaining that the motion filing did not satisfy the regulatory requirements under 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) and (3). See also 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(4). We explained that when the Petitioner 
filed his first motion filing in May 2020, he did "not state new facts that are supported by documentary 
1 In September 2020, the Petitioner submitted a statement, clarifying that he was filing combined motions, not an appeal, 
in May 2020. 
evidence" and "did not submit a statement or brief with [the] motion to reconsider referencing a 
pertinent legal authority." 
In November 2020, the Petitioner submitted another motion filing, combined motions to reconsider 
and reopen the proceeding ( second motion filing). In September 2021, we dismissed his second 
motion filing, explaining that we had dismissed his first motion filing for the following reasons: 
[T]the regulations regarding the submission of a motion to reopen or a motion to 
reconsider do not provide an allowance for additional time to submit a statement, brief 
or additional evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5 ( a )(1 )(iii), see also Instructions for Notice 
of Appeal or Motion, Form I-290B at 6 (rev. 5/17/2018). The second motion [filing] 
does not provide evidence that the brief [ and/or additional evidence] was submitted by 
the Petitioner together with the Form I-290B of the first motion [filing]. 
As the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen or a motion to 
reconsider, we will dismiss the [second] motion [filing]." 
The matter is now before us on a third motion filing, combined motions to reconsider and reopen the 
proceeding. In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested 
benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012);Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010).2 Upon review, we 
will dismiss the Petitioner's third motion filing. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. In addition, by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to 
"the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). This 
means that the scope of the instant motion filing (third motion filing) is limited to our September 2021 
decision dismissing the Petitioner's second motion filing. As such, the issues before us are, as relating 
to our September 2021 motion decision: (1) whether the Petitioner has "state[ d] the new facts to be 
provided in the reopened proceeding and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence"; 
2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, and credible evidence that leads us to believe that the claim is "more likely 
than not" or"probably"true. it has satisfied the preponderance oftheevidence standard. Chawathe, 25 I&NDec. at 375-
76. 
2 
and (2) whether he has shown that our September 2021 decision "was based on an incorrect application 
of law or [U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)] policy." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), (3). 
On motion, the Petitioner "reiterates that he submitted his executed statement/brief including his 
supplemental evidentiary documents to support his motion on May 2020 via US Priority mail." As 
discussed, the Petitioner submitted his first motion filing in May 2020, without including a brief, a 
statement or additional supporting evidence. After he submitted his Form I-290B initiating his first 
motion filing, he provided a statement and additional evidence. We explained in our September 2021 
decision denying his second motion filing that, under the regulations, and unlike an appeal, a petitioner 
must submit a statement and/or additional evidence in support of a motion at the same time he or she 
files the Form I-290B. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(iii), see also Instructions for Notice of Appeal or 
Motion, Form I-290B at 6 (rev. 12/02/l 9)(specifyingthat "[f]or appeals," not motions, a petitioner 
"must file any brief and/or additional evidence within 30 calendar days of filing Form I-290B"). 3 For 
motions, a petitioner cannot submit such materials after filing his or her Form I-290B, as the Petitioner 
had done in this case. 
We will dismiss the Petitioner's instant motion to reconsider the matter ( third motion filing), because 
he has not shown that our September 2021 decision dismissing his second motion filing was based on 
an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, or that our decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence then before us. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Specifically, the Petitioner has not shown that 
he may file supporting documents for a motion after his filing of a Form I-290B that initiated the 
motion. In addition, he has not shown that he filed his supporting documentations at the same time he 
filed his Form I-290B in May 2020. 
Similarly, we will dismiss the Petitioner's instant motion to reopen the proceeding (third motion 
filing), because the materials he offers on motion relate to the bases under which the Director denied 
the petition in 2019 and the bases under which we dismissed his appeal in March 2020. The motion 
materials, however, do not concern the reasons specified in our September 2021 motion decision, in 
which we dismissed his second motion filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2); see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ I 03 .5( a)( I )(i) (noting that the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision"). 
III. CONCLUSION 
We will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider the matter because his third motion filing does 
not establish that we erred in our September 2021 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(3). In 
addition, we will dismiss his motion to reopen the proceeding because he has not provided 
documentary evidence of new facts as relating to our September 2021 motion decision. See 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 In his statement in support ofthe instant (third)motion filing, the Petitioner appears to believe that his May2020motion 
filing (first motion filing) was an appeal and cites regulations and AAO Practice Manual sections pertaining to appeals. 
His May 2020 filing was in fact a motion filing,not an appeal. He filed an appeal in 2019, which we dismissed on its 
merits in March 2020. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 30, 2024 In Re: 33358714 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is an online marketplace for images, music, and other editing tools. It seeks to classify 
the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Beneficiary had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did the Petitioner demonstrate that the foreign national met at least three of the 
ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of 
proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary met the 
following five categories: 
• Published material; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished entities; and 
• High salary or remuneration. 
The Director decided that the Beneficiary met one of the evidentiary criteria relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied the remaining categories listed above. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains the evidence satisfies the evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon 
which the Director issued an adverse determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the scholarly articles criterion, but we do 
not agree with the Director's assessments relating to a leading or critical role or the high salary criteria. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner provided evidence showing the Beneficiary published scholarly work in his field in at 
least three of the require publication types. The Director determined this evidence met this criterion's 
requirement and we agree with that conclusion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary requirements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the 
published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to the Petitioner's work 
in the field under which they seek classification as an immigrant. The published material must also 
appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Professional or major trade 
publications are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. To qualify as major media, the 
Petitioner must establish the circulation statistics are high relative to other similar forms of media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, they must provide a translation that complies with the 
requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all of 
these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided other scholarly articles citing to the Beneficiary's work and patents as 
evidence under this criterion, as well as his own citations. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion as the material was not about the Beneficiary and his 
specific work published in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Regarding 
the Beneficiary's own citations, the Director indicated this evidence bore no probative value because 
it was not related to this criterion's requirements. 
On appeal, the brief notes that USCIS policy provides that the Beneficiary and his work "need not be 
the only subject of the material; published material that covers a broader topic but includes a 
substantial discussion of the person's work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the 
work may be considered material about the person relating to the person's work." See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
They also point out agency policy confirms that its "officers may consider material that focuses solely 
or primarily on work or research being undertaken by a team of which the person is a member, 
provided that the material mentions the person in connection with the work or other evidence in the 
record documents the person's significant role in the work or research." Id. And finally, they note 
agency policy further reflects that evidence under this criterion "may include documentation such as 
print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular or academic journal articles, books, textbooks, 
similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage ofthe person and 
the person's work." Id. 
While we acknowledge counsel's efforts here, they invite us to expand the regulatory language-as 
well as agency policy describing how we are to apply those rules-beyond its textual confines, similar 
to stretching a garment until the fabric loses its intended form. We must resist such elasticity where 
it threatens to compromise the integrity of this administrative law. We note the Petitioner does not 
argue that these scholarly works include a substantial discussion of the Beneficiary and his work as 
opposed to simply referencing to it. More appropriate evidence under this criterion would consist of 
material that is actually about the Beneficiary instead of being about software networking, cloud 
computing, and other information technology topics. 
Coverage that is about a broader topic in which the foreign national is merely mentioned does not 
demonstrate that the published material itself is "about the alien" and "relating to the alien's work in 
the field" as the regulation mandates. See Mussarova v. Garland, 562 F. Supp. 3d 837, 848--49 (C.D. 
3 
Cal. 2022) (finding the published material criterion's requirements are not satisfied where the articles 
are about events in which a foreign national completed but were not about them and citing Noroozi v. 
Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012)); see also generally Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles about a show or a character within a show are not about the performer). 
Because the Petitioner did not provide evidence of published material that is about the Beneficiary in 
the requisite publication types, it has not fulfilled this criterion's plain language requirements. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner provided numerous forms of evidence, but the Director determined that material did 
not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
We begin with the Petitioner's claims of error on the Director's part. We agree with the Petitioner 
that the Director committed an error when they required evidence to "directly compare the 
beneficiary's remuneration to those in his specific position of Senior Software Engineer, API in the 
specific field of enterprise-level solutions and network security development." 
The Petitioner must present evidence of objective earnings data showing the Beneficiary has earned a 
"high salary" or "significantly high remuneration" in comparison with those performing similar work 
during the same time period. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
(considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. 
Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for 
those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field). But narrowly focusing on 
the job's title rather than its duties and responsibilities is not the proper approach. 
Now to the evidence. Although the Petitioner provided several types of evidence, we note a few that 
appear to demonstrate they satisfy this criterion's requirements. The Petitioner provided material from 
the now defunct U.S. Department of Labor's Online Wage Library for the standard occupational 
classificational code 15-1252 for Software Developers in the location and the year they filed the 
petition, and the same year as his representative pay statements. The Online Wage Library reflects a 
Level 4 Wage was $157,477 per year. A Level 4 Wage is the average of the highest-paid two-thirds, 
or approximately the 67th percentile. The Beneficiary's annual salary is above the 89th percentile and 
we conclude this is sufficient to meet this criterion's requirements. 
We therefore withdraw the Director's adverse determination and conclude the Petitioner has submitted 
evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the entity's 
activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it was leading or critical 
4 
for organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments as a whole. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization, establishment, division, or department 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a unit subordinate to these listed entities. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2(B)(l ). 
USCIS policy reflects that organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments that enjoy a 
distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. (citing to the 
definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, 
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence 
satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided claims relating to three organizations but the Director decided none of those 
claims met this criterion's requirements. In a letter from current Senior Vice President of 
she characterized the Beneficiary's role at as both leading and critical. 
But it does not appear that his role was leading in the manner the regulation requires for this criterion 
and we will consider whether his performance for this organization was critical. 
Ms. I I stated I I hired the Beneficiary late in 2018 as a software engineer but based on his 
skills moved him to the ad-products team early the next year. She stated the Beneficiary built 
ad-pacing services, which are tools or technologies used to regulate the delivery of online 
advertisements over a specified time period to ensure ads are distributed evenly throughout an 
advertising campaign's duration. These services were particularly important for I business as 
they can experience spikes in use surrounding large, planned events ( e.g., the Superbowl) or unplanned 
events (e.g., celebrity gossip). 
Ms. I I detailed how I I advertising services impactedI 
I lwhich ultimately fell through due to Ms. 
quoted and referred to an article published on TechCnmch's website in which the article's author 
quoted from the primary 
regulatory body responsible for overseeing and enforcing competition law and ensuring that markets 
operate fairly: 
"Before the merger, I had launched innovative advertising services which it was 
considering expanding to countries outside the U.S., I I 
services allowed companies-such as Dunkin' Donuts and Pepsi-to promote their 
brands through noted. 
I advertising services had the potential to compete with I II They would have also encouraged greater innovation 
from others in the market, including social media sites and advertisers. I I 
terminated I I advertising services I I removing an 
important source of potential competition. I considers this particularly 
concernmg g1ven that I I controls nearly half of the I I 
5 
It appears Ms.I I explains not only how the Beneficiary's work for the company had an internal 
impact, but also in its business dealings outside of the organization. She further explains the 
Beneficiary's other efforts within the organization, but based on his work on the ad-pacing services 
she has sufficiently explained how his work for the company was impactful. She details how the 
company has progressed in the area in which the Beneficiary was a key player and it seems apparent 
that his role was crucial tol I success. As it relates to reputation, the record more than 
adequately reflects it meets the regulatory requirement of being distinguished. 
Based on the above, we withdraw the Director's conclusion that the Beneficiary did not meet this 
criterion's requirements. 
Because the Petitioner has fulfilled at least three of the regulatory criteria, it is unnecessary that we 
offer additional analysis on the remaining claims under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
It would also serve no purpose for us to evaluate the Petitioner's comparable evidence claims for the 
same reason. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Further, because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for the denial, we remand this 
proceeding so that the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian 
framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7072339 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an Executive Vice President (Producer), seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of 
which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she submitted probative and credible evidence that she meets 
four out of the ten criteria and is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden 
and we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international 
recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 {AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been emroyed as Executive Vice President (Producer) lo~ I I an independent film and television production company, since 2017. 
Previously, re worked in the United Kingdom television industry in production roles tori I 
I ~. I, andl I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met five criteria, summarized 
below: 
I (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
I (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration; and 
I (x), Commercial successes in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet any of the claimed evidentiary criteria. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding criterion (x), relating to 
2 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, we consider that issue to be waived.1 The 
Petitioner maintains that she meets the other four criteria claimed previously. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that the Petitioner has established 
that she meets the criteria relating to published materials, leading or critical roles, and high salary. 
With respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted a 
total of nine articles published by television and film industry publications Deadline Hollywood 
(www.deadline.com), RealScreen (www.realscreen.com), Television Business International 
(www.tbivision.com), and Broadcast magazine (www.broadcastnow.co.uk). The Director determined 
that the submitted articles are not about the Petitioner, noting that "the majority of the articles 
announced her change in employment status" and that "articles that are not about the alien do not meet 
this regulatory criterion." Although the Director correctly noted that each of the articles publicized 
the Petitioner's hiring by a new employer, they provide sufficient information relating to her and her 
work in the field to satisfy the plain langua e of the criterion, and included the required title, date and 
author of the material. For example, the 2017 Deadline Hollywood article, titled I I 
mentions some of thl Petitioner's expected 
responsibilitie,µn_lli/r new position, her previous work with~ I ~ I I I I andl__J and includes quotes from the Petitioner and .... ,-_-_-_-_-_-_-_~_-_-_-_-_-_-_-__._,,~ executive 
staff about her hiring. 
The Director further found that the Petitioner provided "no evidence" in support of her claim that the 
submitted articles were published by professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Director noted that "information submitted from the bulk of the biogs and websites have little 
probative information for meeting this criterion," without acknowledging the Petitioner's supporting 
evidence pertaining to the specific online publications submitted. While the Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient evidence to establish that all four publications qualify as professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, the evidence is sufficient to establish that the articles published by 
Deadline Hollywood and Broadcast magazine meet all requirements of this criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), observing that the submitted letters from persons familiar with her work 
"fall short of providing probative information that specifically addressed how [her] role for the 
organizations was leading or critical." However, the Director did not discuss the submitted letters 
individually. Upon review, we agree that some of the testimonial evidence lacks information needed 
to establish that specific roles the Petitioner held were "leading or critical" to the respective 
organizations that employed her. We conclude that the Petitioner nevertheless demonstrated that she 
holds a leading role as Executive Vice President of .__ _______ _,and also established her 
current employer's distinguished reputation. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 {BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
Finally, with respect to the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director 
acknowledged evidence of the Petitioner's 2018 earnings as well as her submission of various 
published wage surveys for producers and directors. The Director noted that the Petitioner's earnings 
in 2018 were high in comparison to those reported in the submitted surveys, but found she "has 
performed in what appear to be freelance capacities" and observed there was insufficient evidence of 
her "earnings over a period of time." The evidence reflects the Petitioner was a full-time salaried 
employee in 2018 and last worked in a freelance capacity in 2004. The Director also noted that the 
Petitioner did not provide "documentary evidence of the earnings of those in the Petitioner's 
occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field." Such evidence is not required to 
meet the plain language of this criterion, but rather should be considered in a final merits 
determination. The Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has demonstrated that she meets the requisite three evidentiary criteria. 
While the Petitioner claims to meet a fourth criterion (relating to her original contributions in the field) 
we will consider that claim together with the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 While the Petitioner has had success in the entertainment industry, 
the evidence does not establish that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting her professional background. This evidence indicates 
that she has steadily worked in the United Kingdom I I television industry, initially in a freelance 
capacity, and then joining I in 2004, where she was eventually promoted to the position of 
Director of Development. After four years with I I where she created and commissioned the 
scripted reality series~-----~· she spent three years as an executive producer atl I I I where her most acclaimed project wasl I a seven-part documentary 
produced to Subsequently, the Petitioner spent one year working as a producer 
tori ~ as head of television before joining! I in 2012 as a commissioning editor, 
where her most high-profile project was oversight and expansion of the scripted television series I I 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
c===lsince 2017, she has worked as the Executive Vice President (Producer) tori ~ in the United States. ....._ __ _ 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has been the subject of published articles in trade publications, she 
has held a leading role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and she has earned a high 
salary. In addition, we have also considered evidence relating to her original contributions to the 
television industry. The record, however, does not demonstrate that she has reached the very top of 
the field or that her achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As noted, some of the Petitioner's career transitions have received media coverage in television 
industry ~ublications. The Petitioner submitted a total of nine articles, includin five that reported her 
hiring byl lin 2017, one that reported her hiring by in 2012 two that 
reported her hiring byl I in 2011, and one that reported her hiring by....._ _____ ~ in 
September 2008. While the Petitioner established that two of the four websites that published these 
articles (Deadline Hollywood and Broadcast) qualify as major trade publications, the record does not 
include adequate support for the Petitioner's claim that this evidence amounts to a "vast array of 
published materials" about the Petitioner and her more than 15 years of work in the field, or that the 
nature and scope of this industry media coverage submitted demonstrates that she is "at the pinnacle 
of the field." Rather, the record suggests that these types of brief news articles are routinely published 
when television producers move from one network or production company to another. The articles 
mark the Petitioner's success and advancement in her field, but do not demonstrate that she has 
achieved sustained national or international acclaim as a television producer. 
The Petitioner also provided articles from publications such as The Hollywood Reporter, Deadline 
Hollywood, The Daily Mail, The Mirror, and The Sun. Although the Petitioner did not claim that these 
articles are about her or that they otherwise satisfy the published materials criterion, she emphasizes 
that they nevertheless establish that she "is routinely referenced and uoted" in major media articles. 
For exam le, the Petitioner submitted three 2019 articles abou s upcoming development 
of.....__~~-----~ co-produced reality show....._ ____ ~ These articles mention in 
passing t at t e et1t1oner will serve as one of three executive producers for the program. As a 
television producer who produces or commissions programming for national networks, the Petitioner 
works in an industry in which most, if not all, projects receive media coverage. Without evidence that 
sets her apart from others in this field, she has not established how being briefly referenced or quoted 
in media articles about her shows demonstrates that that she is recognized as a television producer 
who is among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Much of the remaining documentation in the record is testimonial evidence addressing either the 
Petitioner's original contributions in the field, and/or her leading or critical roles with her employers. 
With respect to her ori inal artistic-related contributions, the Petitioner indicates that she: (1) 
introduced the television enre in ~nited Kingdom based on her role in 
developing and commissioning.....__~--~-forl__J(2) introduced the use of I I 
rigs in a commercial business documentary series based on her role in produci~ I 
tori la□1 (3) "revolutionized digital programming aroundl__Jtelevision" by 
expanding Ito include digital content while working as a commissioning editor at 
5 
,___ __ ~I At issue in the final merits determination is not the nature or significance of the Petitioner's 
contributions, but rather the extent of the acclaim she has earned in her field as a result of them. 
I I currently an executive producer at l I· states that be met the 
Pet1t1oner during his previous role as Senior Vice President ofl I He 
explains that in the mid-2000s,I I television was increasingly ~opular in the United States, 
but there were not yet any comparable programs in the United Kingdom. I I indicates that 
the Petitioner "instinctively knew that Britain was ready" for this type of programming, chose I I 
I Ito develop the program, and "established herself as a trailblazer creating! I 
which took an American-st le glamourousI I setting intol I in Britain." He 
notes thatL...-....----------1 ran for two season. He further explains that its influence remains because 
it created the,___ ___ ~ genre in the United Kingdom and "paved the way for consequent series, 
both in terms of tone techni ue and even characters," pointing to the popular serie~ I I k and ........... -~~--' which aired on other networks. I !concludes that the 
Petitioner's "origina contri utIons to this genre have firmly planted her at the very top of our field." 
The Petitioner submitted an article titled I I published by The Guardian 
in 2011 which primarily discusses! ( which, at the time, had recently received a 
BAFTA award. The author interviewed producers and directors from the show's creator, I I I. I a□J states that 1 I began the UK trend for these h brids back in 2006 
wheril-==· =--_._asked it to make a British version of the hit US sho 
§which resulted irl I. The Guardian article goes on to state tha 
while "not a ratings hit. set a pattern for programs that followed." This article support 
s claim thatl J was original in the U.K. television industry and is considered 
influential in the genre, but does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner garnered national acclaim 
based on her contributions to the program, or that those contributions "firmly planted her at the very 
top" of the field. 
,___ _____ _.ltormer creative director and co-CEO at provided a letter 
discussing the Petitioner's work as producer onL...;-------,.... _ __Ja ,___ __ __,documentary series 
which aired on the U.K. 's I in 2011. .___ __ ___, describes the format of the series as 
"groundbreaking" noting that it was the first program "to use I I rigs in a commercial 
business and in an 'entertainment' feature." She also notes that the Petitioner incorporated a crew in 
combination with the format in order to provide viewers with "unprecedented footage" 
of the L------1'"----~,__ _ ____J describes the show as a "critical and commercial triumph" and 
winner of a........,.. __ -,--_ __,Television Award. She also indicates tha~ l"went on 
to inspire and pave the way for other productions." I I discussed the originality of the 
techniques the Petitioner employed and describes her as a "renowned producer" with "extraordinary" 
talent but does not indicate that her role as a producer tori !garnered her national 
acclaim in the field. 
Nor does the supporting evidence establish that the Petitioner received significant industry recognition 
for her work on The Petitioner rovided a 2011 article ubl ished by The Guardian 
titled which mentions D 
I I but was published before the show aired. The author interviewed,___ __ _.executives 
who discuss the advantages of the program format, but the article does not mention the Petitioner. The 
6 
Petitioner submitted evidence thatl I received some media attention when~I ---~ 
commissioned! Ito produce it in 2010 (from Birmingham Post and Broadcast), but the 
submitted articles also predate the airing of the show. These articles mention the Petitioner's executive 
producer role and the show's original! !format, but do not demonstrate that she 
received wide industry recognition or acclaim for her work on the series. The Petitioner provided 
evidence of the show's.___ ____ _.TV Award as .___ _______ _.' from Digital Spy, 
and an article about the show's cast published by Marie Claire, but these articles do not mention the 
Petitioner. 
The third and final original contribution thl Petitioner :7entions is her ex,ansion of I ~s 
original format to include digital content.~-___ _.Jsl J provided a letter explaining 
that the Petitioner joined the network after the show's original creation but "took the helm" as 
commissioning editor and expanded it to include a summer spinoff series that appeared on I I 
Os digital channel and achieved "some of the highest ratings on our network." I I also 
discusses the Petitioner's building of a "full digital brand" front lby creating "a series 
of.___ _______ __. marketing and merchandise" including a live music platform, a fitness 
DVD, and other spinoffs that were shown on U.S. and Australian television. She indicates that the 
Petitioner "expanded the program's very "English' reality television brand into an international and 
cross platform one, which is truly a unique contribution to our field."I I concludes that the 
Petitioner "is at the top of her field for commissioning television productions," and has "pioneered 
I I within the United Kingdom." 
The Petitioner submitted two articles about thel 111 spinoff. One of them 
mentions the Petitioner by name and includes a brief quote from her~ot demonstrate that she 
garnered national or international acclaim by commissionin this di ital s inoff to the o ular show. 
The Petitioner also provided an article titl't'-'-..__ ____ _,,_ _________ ~~~----1...., 
published by Mail Online, which discusses~----~s receipt of a BAFTA award for 
I ITV Show in 2013. The article provides reactions to the win from 
other attendees at the awards show but does not mention the Petitioner or indicate that she was a 
recipient of the award. 3 
Considered individually and collectively, the evidence establishes that the Petitioner has earned 
recognition from those who have worked with her orl I television programming, but 
does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater 
field reflecting a "career of acclaimed work in the field," garnering the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Here, the letters 
do not provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient 
corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
3 Although! lwon a BAFTA during the Petitioner's tenure as thel lcommissioning editor for the 
show, the record does not establish that she was credited as a producer or executive producer of the show, nor does she 
claim that she has been the recipient of this or any other industry award. 
7 
The Petitioner r · ce to su art her claimhat she bas be;d leadion or critical roles 
withl I. I I and _ . ] The Petitioner 
submitted two letters from..___,,_--,---------,---,----,------,-_____,.__. CEO,~-----' which are sufficient to 
establish that she was hired in a critical role for this company as Executive Vice President. 
Specifically, the evidence reflects that she was engaged to adapt the international group's British 
television formats for the Uni market and to expand the group's programming slate on 
American television channels. at the Petitioner has already secured co-productions 
between nd ~=-----1-'J'L.J.l.L.J .................... ...ui...-----,1 andl I and secured developments with D 
and includin the which Is based on a U.K. series. Based on the scope 
of her role with~------~' the Petitioner has established that she contributes in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the group's activities in the United States. 
The submitted testimonials addressing her work atl l I I andl I are 
limited to discussing only or two of her individual projects and do not sufficiently demonstrate how 
her role was leading or critical to these organizations as a whole. In fact, she initially relied on a letter 
from to establish that she met this criterion, but I !who currently works 
for appears to have only worked with the Petitioner as a fellow commissioning editor at 
,___ __ __,in the past and did not establish that she is in a position to confirm the Petitioner's lejdingl 
or critical roles with other organizations. Although the Petitioner also submitted letters from I I of Lr----,.......J I I (formerly of I I, and I I, who worked 
with her a he rimaril discussed the contributions she made td 11 I I I and~ _____ _., respectively. Their letters did not provide sufficient detail regarding 
the overall significance of her contributions on the outcome of their respective employers' activities 
to support a conclusion that her roles were leading or critical to these organizations as a whole. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that her employment with these entities was reflective of, or 
resulted in, widespread acclaim from her field or was commensurate with being at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As noted, the Petitioner demonstrated that she earned a high salary in 2018 when comparing her 
earnings (approximately $311,000) to reported earnings of "directors and producers" in the same 
geographic area. Based on the information accompanying the submitted Department of Labor wage 
surveys, it appears that the data collected includes, for example, the salaries of directors and producers 
of radio and stage productions, as well as individuals like the Petitioner, who produces television 
programming for national networks. As such, it is unclear that the provided wage information allows 
us to meaningfully compare her earnings to those of the highest earners in her specific field. See 
Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 {Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). In addition, the Petitioner has only documented her past earnings for one year, the year 
preceding the filing of the petition. Therefore, while the evidence may demonstrate some degree of 
recognition of her achievements in the field, she has not submitted evidence showing her earnings 
have consistently been at a level reflecting that she among the small percentage at the very top of her 
field. 
8 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields. The evidence reflects that the Petitioner 
has consistently worked as a producer or commissioning editor for television programs with a national 
audience, but she has not supported her extraordinary ability claim with extensive documentation 
recognizing her achievements in the field. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual 
of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 l&N Dec. at 954. While the record shows that the Petitioner is a 
successful producer and commissioning editor who has worked on several well-received television 
projects, the totality of the evidence does not indicate she has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
111. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that she is eligible to be classified 
as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(1){A) of the Act. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 18671058 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an administrative services manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal of the 
denial. The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider , which we 
also dismissed. The matter is now before us on a second combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that 
the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that by regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The issue before us is whether the Petitioner has submitted new 
facts to warrant reopening or established that our decision to dismiss the previous motion was based on 
an incorrect application oflaw or users policy. 
A. Prior AAO Decisions 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal after determining that she did establish that she meets any of the 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 In the previous motion to reconsider, we 
observed that the Petitioner restated and described the evidence she submitted under the one-time 
achievement and the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, memberships, published material, judging, 
original contributions, and leading or critical role. 2 Although the Petitioner contended that we erred 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner argued eligibility for the one-time achievement under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and, in the 
alternative, that she met eight criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards or prizes, membership in associations, published material in major media, judging, original 
contributions of major significance in the field, scholarly articles, perfonnance in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) 
(vi), (viii), and (ix). We noted that the Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not establish, that she meets 
the criterion related to display at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and that on appeal the Petitioner did not contest the Director's 
finding that she does not meet this criterion or offer additional arguments. 
2 We noted that the Petitioner's prior motion to reconsider did not address our decisions regarding the scholarly articles 
and high salary criteria. 
2 
in our dismissal of the appeal, she did not attempt to identify or rebut any specific errors in our decision 
or establish how we had misapplied the law or USCIS policy in adjudicating her appeal, as required 
for a motion to reconsider. We noted that the Petitioner did not even mention our appellate decision 
and address our specific conclusions, including our determinations on the Director's combined motion 
decision. We further noted that our appellate decision thoroughly analyzed and explained why every 
piece of evidence and arguments addressed in the motion did not meet the regulatory requirements. 
We concluded, therefore, that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in either misapplying 
law or policy or failing to address prior arguments or evidence. For these reasons, we dismissed the 
motion to reconsider. 
With respect to the prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner submitted the following new evidence under 
the corres ondin criteria: 1 a certificate from dated December 8 2011 (awards); 2) a letter 
from the L-~---~------------..-------------'- ........... .i..s;d January 3, 2006 
(memberships); 3) letters from .__ _____ __,and dated December 28, 
2012 and January 8, 2003, respectively (judging); 5) letters from~ ____ __,andl I I I dated March 11, 2017 and July 18, 2017, respectively (leading or critical role); and 6) 2005 
Filipino income tax documentation (high salary). We determined that, as the Petitioner did not submit 
these documents before the Director, either at the time she filed the petition or in response to the 
Director's request for evidence, we would not consider these claims and documents in our adjudication 
of the motion. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if "the 
petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it 
for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" 
and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also 
Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). We found that, although the documents pre-date 
her initial filing, the Petitioner did not explain why she did not present these documents before the 
Director. Accordingly, we refused to consider this evidence to determine the Petitioner's eligibility 
under the applicable criteria for the first time on motion. As such, we dismissed her motion to reopen. 
B. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motions do not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner maintains that we erred in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider but she does 
not specifically address our reasons for dismissal, nor does she attempt to identify or rebut any specific 
errors in that decision. 3 A motion to reconsider must specify the factual and legal issues that were 
decided in error or overlooked in our prior decision. Cf Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
3 The Petitioner's present motion to reconsider does not address our decisions regarding the one-time achievement and the 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material and original contributions. 
3 
2006). 4 ("[A] motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior . . . decision. 
The moving party must specify the factual and legal issues raised on appeal that were decided in error 
or overlooked in our initial decision .... ") Here, the Petitioner has not specifically addressed our 
most recent decision or stated any reasons for reconsideration of that decision. Nor does she contend 
that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, or that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of that decision. As such, the motion does not 
meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider , and 8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) . 
Further, we acknowledge that the Petitioner's claim on motion includes a criticism of users policy 
guidance related to the adjudication of extraordinary ability immigrant petitions. 5 This criticism 
includes a rejection of users' reliance on Kazarian as a basis for conducting a multi-part analysis 
that includes a final merits determination . The Petitioner does not articulate a claim that we misapplied 
this policy in our adjudication of her prior motion to reconsider. Rather, she maintains that we erred 
in our adjudication of the prior motion by adhering to Kazarian and applicable users policy and 
asserts we should have looked to the reasoning in Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 
1994), a pre-Kazarian district court decision, and other pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions 
in adjudicating her prior motion. 6 Because we have already concluded that the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that we misapplied the law or users policy in concluding that she did not meet the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we reserve this 
issue. 7 
In sum, although the Petitioner has submitted a brief in support of the current motion, she does not 
contend that we misapplied the law or USeIS policy in dismissing the previous motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner 's statement in support of the current motion does not directly address the conclusions we 
reached in our immediate prior decision or provide reasons for reconsideration of those conclusions . 
D. Motion to Reopen 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 e.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). With respect to the prior motion to reopen, the Petitioner maintains that we erred in not 
considering the aforementioned new evidence offered under the criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, judging, leading or critical role, and high salary. 
4 As noted in our prior decision, O-S-G-relates to motions to reconsider before the Board of Immigration Appeals, 
governed by 8 C.F.R. § 1003.2(b)(l), which states: "A motion to reconsider shall state the reasons for the motion by 
specifying the errors of fact or law in the prior Board decision and shall be supported by pertinent authority ." These 
requirements are fundamentally similar to those found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and therefore the same logic applies. 
5 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual /volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
6 We note that in contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court we are not 
bound to follow the published decision of a United States district court in matters arising within the same district. See 
Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). Although the reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given 
due consideration when it is properly before us, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. at 719. 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). However , as already discussed, the Petitioner's 
assertion that we should have relied on Buletini and other pre-Kazarian federal district court decisions rather than Kazarian 
and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive. 
4 
In support of the present motion, the Petitioner explains why she did not present these documents 
before the Director. In her brief, she asserts that these documents "could have been presented in the 
initial stage but because of the string [sic] typhoon that hit the Philippines at the time or before the 
initial filing, these documents were not previously available" and "these new evidences were hardly 
located and presented in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic." In addition, in an unsworn statement the 
Petitioner provides that the new documents "were unavailable during the initial submission for the 
reason that I have to ask my brother to dig and look into my old bunch of files in the garage." Here, 
however, we do not find that the Petitioner's new evidence overcomes our previous finding that she 
does not meet at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
As it relates to the criterion for lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner asserted on motion that she had 
received such an award, as demonstrated by a certificate fromc=] dated December 8, 2011. USCIS 
policy guidance provides that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the 
prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 8 The award 
certificate indicates it was an "Award for Excellence given to [the Petitioner] recognizes leaders who 
share Te opplrtunity & mentor others to build their own successfolD business," and was conferred 
by an branch manager in I I Philippines. However, the certificate was not 
accompanied by any information regarding the award or the national or international recognition 
associated with it, such as news media articles or other relevant documentation. In addition, the 
Petitioner does not provide evidence demonstrating that mentoring others in building a successful I I business is in the same or an allied field of administrative services management, and therefore 
that this award was given for excellence in her field of endeavor. Therefore, this document does not 
overcome our previous finding that the Petitioner does not meet the criterion regarding lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Regarding the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), in the Petitioner's prior motion she 
provided a letter froml I a coordinator with the I I dated January 3, 2006. D I I acknowledges the Petitioner's membership inl I which he indicates "helps our 
members become more effective on the job by teaching the human aspect of management via 
numerous career development forums and trainings." While this letter confirms that the Petitioner 
was a member of1 I and its mission, the record lacks documentation, such as bylaws, membership 
requirements, or other appropriate evidence, establishing that the organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 9 For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner's additional evidence on motion does 
not demonstrate that she satisfies the regulatory requirements of the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
8 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (indicating 
that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or international 
significance). 
9 Id. (providing an example of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that 
requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition 
of the individual's distinguished achievements in original research). 
5 
As it pertains to the high salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) , in support of the Petitioner 's 
prior motion she submitted 2005 Filipino income tax documentation. The burden is on the Petitioner 
to provide appropriate evidence, including, but not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate 
compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay above the compensation data, 
demonstrating that she meets this criterion. 1° Further, a petitioner working in a different country must 
be evaluated based on the wage statistics or corn arable evidence in that country.11 Here the income 
tax documentation reflects that in 2005 paid the Petitioner a gross annual salary of P420,000 
while she was working in ------ Philippines. Therefore , appropriate evidence may be 
compensation surveys reflecting the wages for administrative service managers in the Petitioner's 
geographic area in the Philippines , or other appropriate materials . 
The Petitioner provided 2005 Fili ino income tax documentation for a colleague.I I l reflectin that received a gross annual salary of P_l_3_7_,4_0_0-.0-0_w_h-il~e 
working in _____ -Philippines , and an undated identification badge indicating her position as 
an administrative manager. The Petitioner claims that "due to my advanced level of expertise and 
extensive experience, I am grateful to have commanded a higher amount in salary compared to her." 
However , salary information obtained from only one individual does not reliably represent industry 
salaries. Without appropriate evidence of the average salary earned by administrative service 
managers in the Petitioner 's geographic area in the Philippines , the Petitioner has not provided 
documentation sufficient to establish whether she has commanded a high salary in relation to others 
in her field. Therefore , the Petitioner has not overcome our previous finding that she does not meet 
the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) . 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner's new evidence does not overcome our previous 
determination that she does not meet the regulatory criteria relating to awards, membership, or high 
salary. Although in the present motion the Petitioner also claims that she meets the criteria related to 
judging and leading or critical role, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them, as the Petitioner 
cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3).12 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed , the Petitioner's motion to reconsider has not shown that our latest decision 
was based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy, and the evidence provided in support of 
the motion to reopen does not overcome the grounds underlying our previous decision. The motion 
to reopen and motion to reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed . 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed . 
io Id. 
11 Jd. 
12 See Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21841672 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete who competes in rhythmic gymnastics, seeks classification as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, as it did 
not demonstrate that she has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized 
award) or, in the alternative, that she meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In visa petition proceedings , the petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N 
Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of Christo 's 
Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a rhythmic gymnast, provided evidence that she was an active competitor in her sport 
from early childhood through the end of 2014. She indicates that she attended I I 
University from 2015 to 2019, where she studied linguistic methods of teaching Russian language. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet three of the ten criteria: 
• (i) Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards or prizes; 
• (iii) Published materials in professional or major trade publications or other major media; and 
• (v) Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that she met any of the claimed criterion. 
On appeal, she maintains that she established by a preponderance of the evidence that she meets all 
three criteria and is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. We have 
reviewed all the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not demonstrate that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that they received prizes or awards, and that the 
awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Relevant 
2 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 1 
In a supporting letter, the Petitioner indicated that she "has won numerous medals at major national 
and international Rhythmic Gymnastics tournaments." The Petitioner provided a list of nearly 30 
rhythmic gymnastics competitions held between 2005 and 2014. She did not indicate that she had 
achieved a prize or award at all the listed competitions, nor did she provide any supporting evidence 
relating to the competitions in support of her assertion that her claimed first, second and third place 
finishes were nationally or internationally recognized awards. The Petitioner submitted copies of 
certificates or diplomas for the following awards in support of the petition: 
• First Place at the 3 3rd Summer Spartakiad of 
Youth in Rhythmic Gymnastics, awarded by the Ministry of Culture, Sport, and Tourism of I in May 2014. 
• Third Place at the International Tournament I I 2011, awarded by Club Rhythmic 
Gymnastics! in July 2011. __ 
• First Place at School Championship in Rhythmic Gymnastics in I issued by the 
Specialized Youth Sport School of Olympic Reserve I __________ (two 
certificates, awarded to her in 2010 and 2011, respectively) 
• First Place at the City Cup Competition in Rhythmic Gymnastics in issued by 
the Department of Physical Culture and Sport of Administration I (two 
certificates, awarded to her in March 2009 and February 2010, respectively ), 
• First Place at the Regional Championship in Rhythmic Gymnastics in I issued 
by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism! (no date provided). 
The Petitioner also submitted photographs of what appears to be a gymnastics team medal ceremony, 
but the photographs do not include any identifying information regarding the medalists or the event 
and were not accompanied by any additional evidence or explanation. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's evidence that she received 
the award certificates listed above but advised that the evidence did not demonstrate that any of her 
awards were nationally or internationally recognized awards. The Director provided a list of suggested 
evidence, such as evidence of the criteria used to grant the awards, evidence of media coverage relating 
to the awards, and information regarding the scope of the competitions. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that she "has performed at many competitive national and 
international professional level events and has won coveted awards and prizes at various prestigious 
and acclaimed venues and events around the world." The Petitioner submitted additional information 
regarding the following competitions from the organizers of the events: 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance on the evaluation 
of evidence submitted in support of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
• The I I Russia-wide competition in rhythmic gymnastics held in 
Russia in October 2011. 
• The I !All-Russia Rhythmic Gymnastics tournament for all-around and group 
exercises for thel l Cup held June 2014 in the city of IRussia. 
• Thel Cup for rhythmic gymnastics (all-around program and group exercises) 
held in October 2014 in Russia. 
Although the Petitioner indicated in her initial submission that she participated in these competitions, 
she did not claim that she had achieved awards or prizes at any of them, nor did she provide any 
documentation indicating her receipt of awards at these specific events. The RFE response did not 
include any additional evidence related to the awards that the Petitioner documented at the time of 
filing. 
After reviewing the Petitioner's response, the Director concluded that she did not submit evidence that 
satisfies this criterion. The Director noted that the documented awards in the record were not 
accompanied by any information regarding the events or awarding entities. Further, the Director 
observed that they all appeared to be either local or regional competitions, or school competitions 
limited to competitors who attended a single educational institution. Accordingly, the Director 
determined that the evidence did not establish that the submitted certificates evidence the Petitioner's 
receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the sport of 
rhythmic gymnastics. 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates her claim that she "has performed at many competitive national 
and international professional level events and has won coveted awards and prizes at various 
prestigious and acclaimed venues and events around the world." She maintains that her response to 
the RFE included "extensive evidence to establish that the awards were indeed for excellence" and 
asserts that the Director disregarded the RFE response and evidence that she has received the "top 
awards" in her sport. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not meet her burden 
to establish that the awards documented in the record are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards or prizes in the sport of rhythmic gymnastics. The Petitioner provided evidence that she 
received awards at two "City Cup" competitions, at two school-based competitions, at one or two 
regional competitions, and at one "club" tournament. The Petitioner was provided an opportunity to 
provide additional documentation in support of her claim that these are nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes in her sport and did not avail herself of this opportunity. The RFE response included 
no additional evidence or information related to these competitions or the Petitioner's documented 
awards. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that her response to the RFE included "extensive evidence" in 
support of this criterion. Although the RFE response included evidence related to three rhythmic 
gymnastics competitions including an "All-Russia" competition, the record contains no evidence of 
the Petitioner's receipt of an award or prize at any of these events and therefore we need not address 
whether those events award prizes that are nationally or internationally recognized. 
4 
The Petitioner did not meet her burden to establish that her school-based, local, and regional awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized prizes for excellence in her field. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In general, for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as stated 
in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. To 
qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international distribution. 2 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner stated she and her work in the sport of rhythmic gymnastics have 
"been covered by publications in major media." The Petitioner submitted the following evidence in 
support of this criterion: 
• An article from 2014 titled published in an unidentified 
Russian-language publication. 
• An article titled I I published on ____ 2018, m an unidentified Russian-language 
publication. 
In the RFE, the Director advised the Petitioner that the evidence did not satisfy the plain language of 
this criterion, noting, in part, that the articles were not accompanied by evidence that the articles 
appeared in major trade or professional publications or other major media. The Director also noted 
that at least one of the articles is not about the Petitioner and requested that she provide additional 
information regarding the title, date and author of the published material, comparative circulation or 
distribution data for the publications, and information regarding the intended audiences of the 
publications. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that she "has been featured in many trade publications" 
and that such publications "discuss [her] outstanding results in the field of rhythmic gymnastics." She 
requested that the Director review her original submission. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. The 
Director acknowledged that the Petitioner provided two articles and explained why neither article 
satisfied all requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
reiterates that "many trade publications" have featured her and her "outstanding achievements" in her 
sport. She maintains that the Director reached an erroneous conclusion based on the evidence already 
in the record. 
2 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix (instructing that evidence of published material in professional or 
major trade publication or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is 
high compared to other circulation statistics and show the intended audience of the publication). 
5 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that satisfies this criterion. The article titled 
is about the 
in Russia. It discusses the Petitioner as one of ____ 
The article notes that the Petitioner _______________________ 
was the youngest person selected, mentions her success in regional and city cup competitions in 
rhythmic gymnastics, and includes a quote from her. However, the Petitioner did not identify the 
name or title of the publication where the article appeared or its specific date of publication, and the 
record does not include any supporting evidence to show that the unidentified publication qualifies as 
a major trade or professional publication or other major media. 
The second article is about the success of a "senior troop of thel I dancing group 
The article does not mention the Petitioner and is not related to her work as a rhythmic 
gymnast. Further the Petitioner did not identify the title of the publication, the name of the author or 
provide supporting evidence that would support her claim that the article appeared in a qualifying 
trade or professional publication or major media. 
For all the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
We conclude that the Petitioner has not established that she meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii). As noted, she must demonstrate that she meets at least three criteria to satisfy 
the initial evidence requirement for this classification. While the Petitioner claims to meet one 
additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), our determination that she does not the two criteria 
discussed above is dispositive of the appeal. Accordingly, we reserve and will not address the 
Director's separate determination that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she has made original 
athletic contributions of major significance in her field, or her appellate claims relating to this 
criterion. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field and is one of the small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: AUG. 31, 2023 In Re: 28086854 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an executive with expertise in machine learning software, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission ofcomparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In his native Israel, the Petitioner was an officer in the Directorate of the Israel Defense 
Forces (IDF), leading its Upon leaving the IDF in 2012, the 
Petitioner co-founded....._ __________ _., later renamed I Ibased 
in I IMassachusetts, and he spent several years traveling between Israel and the United States. 
He most reelntly Ttered the United States in 2020 as an L-1 nonimmigrant intracompany transferee 
to serve as vice president of research and development. The Petitioner claims to have 
"revolutionized the field of mineral discovery with his machine learning platform." Since June 2020, 
the Petitioner has served as the chief executive officer oti Ianother! !company 
he co-founded. BothI I use machine learning to identify likely locations of mineral 
deposits for the mining industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied six ofthese criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge ofthe work ofothers; 
• (v), Original contributions ofmajor significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied any ofthe claimed criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he meets four criteria, pertaining to prizes or awards; judging the work ofothers; 
original contributions; and leading or critical roles. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding authorship of scholarly articles and high remuneration, and therefore we 
consider the Petitioner to have waived appeal on those two criteria. 1 
Upon review ofthe record, we agree with the Director's conclusions, as discussed below. 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US. AttJJ Gen., 401 F .3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 201 l)(finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards jar excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner states that he received three awards for his military service in Israel. 
The Petitioner documented his receipt of the 2005 Israeli lfrom Israel's Defense Ministry. 
The Petitioner submitted printouts ofnews articles about the prize, but these articles are from other years 
and do not discuss the Petitioner's receipt of the prize. The Petitioner did not submit evidence from the 
Defense Ministiy to explain why the Petitioner won the prize. That inf01mation would be relevant 
because the Petitioner must show that he received the prize for excellence in the field of endeavor that he 
intends to pursue in the United States. 
The Petitioner submitted letters from former IDF officers, but these individuals did not discuss the 
Beneficiaty's receipt of the Israeli Ior claim that they were in a position to know why the 
Petitioner received it. The letters focus, instead, in the Petitioner's work on defense strategy in the years 
after he received the award. 
The Petitioner claimed that he "received two commendations from [the] United States Southern 
Command and Special Operations Command," but his introductory statement included no further 
information about the claimed commendations or the circumstances under which he received them. A 
letter from a special activities advisor at the U.S. Depatiment of Defense indicates that the Petitioner 
participated in a collaboration between the U.S. and Israeli armed forces, but the letter does not mention 
any commendations. 
The Petitioner also submitted photographs ofwhat appear to be two challenge coins. The legend on one 
coin reads "United States / Special Operations Command"; the other reads "USSOCOM / JS Strategy 
Plans and Policy." The photographed objects are not labeled as commendations and they do not show 
the Petitioner's name, and the Petitioner provided no other evidence relating to them. The photographs, 
by themselves, do not document the Petitioner's receipt ofnationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor that he seeks to pursue in the United States. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director requested documentation to show the criteria for the claimed 
prizes and to explain why he received them. The Petitioner's response did not address this issue. 
The Director denied the petition, stating that the Petitioner had not submitted requested evidence and 
information necessary to show that he satisfied this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he 
received the "extraordinarily prestigious" Israel I l"[fJor his brand-new intelligence and 
analytics methodologies," and he repeats the claim that he received "commendations" from the two 
named U.S. military commands. But the Petitioner has not submitted any first-hand documentation from 
Israel's Defense Ministiy to explain why he received the Israeli prize, or from the U.S. Department of 
Defense to show that he received the challenge coins as "commendations," and to explain the basis for 
those commendations. 
The Petitioner has not documented his receipt ofnationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in his intended field of endeavor. 
3 
Evidence ofthe alien's original scientific. scholarly. artistic, athletic. or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner stated that he "is responsible for bringing search and find machine learning methodologies 
to the mining industry. These patent-pending methods are fifty times more effective at mineral discovery 
than traditional means, having a major impact on the industry, as confirmed by field experts." A U.S. 
patent application filed in 2018 names the Petitioner as one of three inventors of 'I I 
I I 
The Petitioner's initial submission included three letters discussing his machine learning platform. One 
is fromLJ chief executive officer (CEO), a co-inventor of the technology. The Petitioner stated that 
the second letter is from "a global expert in the field ofmachine learning," and the third is from "a global 
~in the field ofmineral discovery." Both of those individuals - a professor ofcomputer science at 
l__JUniversity and a professor of geology at College -were actively collaborating with the 
Petitioner at the time of filing, as technical advisors to The three submitted letters, therefore, all 
present the perspectives ofindividuals associated with 
D CEO stated: 
In business, one will come across many innovative ideas, but few are ever translated into 
real-world applicability. [The Petitioner] has accomplished this feat, introducing "Search 
& Find" methods to mining exploration . 
. . . Considering that each exploration attempt costs roughly two-to-five million dollars, 
this method holds the potential to save untold amounts oftime and money in bottom line 
expenditures. Most impressively, [the Petitioner's] application of "Search & Find" 
machine learning methods is only in its initial stage, with untold practical applications still 
to be implemented .... 
. . . [The Petitioner's] expertise has positioned us as a forerunner in the mining exploration 
industry. 
The Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to establishc=]position "as a forerunner in the 
mining exploration industry," or to show that practical application of the technology has borne out 
expectations ofits "potential to save untold amounts oftime and money." 
TheLJprofessor stated that the mining industry requires "[t]he abi{ity tol more accurately find metals 
such as copper, zinc, and cobalt, and to do so with precision," and that technology "is transforming 
the mining industry." She asserted: "in a recent blind test, [the Petitioner's methodology] performed 50 
times more accurately than the current industry standard (for discovering economically viable deposits)." 
She provided no further details, and the record does not document this test. 
TheI I College professor stated that he has served "as a senior technical consultant for I...._ __, 
mineral discovery platform," but did not otherwise discuss that platform or its significant in the field. 
Instead, he devoted most of his letter to discussing a "postdoctoral research project" on which both he 
4 
and the Petitioner served "on the steering committee." The professor provided few additional details, 
stating that "the results of the research are currently subject to the terms ofa confidentiality agreement." 
This confidentiality means that the research results have not yet been disseminated to the wider field. The 
Petitioner does not claim that, or explain how, his advisory role on a graduate student's research project 
amounted to an original contribution by the Petitioner. 
Apart from statements from individuals employed by or working with0the only initial evidence that 
the Petitioner cited as evidence of the si ificance ofhis contributions is a blog post on Medium, entitled 
" The article discusses 12 
' The article devotes one paragraph to ~--------------------~ reproduced in full below: 
Born out of the Israeli high-tech community in 2013,.....____________ __. 
is a private~funid exploration company focused on identifying tier 
1, world class assets. Based in and a member of the MIT Computer Science and 
Artificial Intelligence Laborat01y describe their approach as a Discove1y Platfo1m; 
an end-to-end discovery and resources definition package, which combines expert 
knowledge and data science. Known in the market for the applicability of their approach 
to identify large porphyry copper depositsOemphasise that their platform is applicable 
for a range of mineral deposits at a variety of scales and in a range ofjurisdicti~ 
also collaborate with a range ofleading universities and research groups such asL_J 
College,! I 
The article does not comment on the significance ofthe Petitioner's platform. Rather, it paraphrasesD 
own description and evaluation of the platform. The article does not indicate or establish that the 
Petitioner has made an original contribution of major significance. The article indicates that D is 
"[k ]nown in the market for the applicability oftheir approach to identify large porphyry copper deposits," 
but "applicability" is not synonymous with majr sijificance in the field. In the absence offurther details 
and corroboration, this vague statement that technology can be used to identify some copper 
deposits is not sufficient to establish the major significance ofthe Petitioner's original contributions. 
The Petitioner asserted that the Medium article shows that ' 
~-----~' But while the article profiles several companies usrg jachine learning, it does not 
indicate that rivals are "followingI I lead" or that was the first company in its 
field to use machine learning in the manner described. 
In the RFE, the Director requested "[o ]bjective, documentary evidence of the significance of the 
beneficiary's contribution to the field" and "[o]bjective, documentary evidence that people throughout 
the field currently consider the beneficiary's work important." The Director also requested evidence of 
the Petitioner's "work being implemented by others." 
In response to tl1e RFE, tl1e Petitioner stated that he "launched a machine learning revolution in tl1e mining 
industry" "[w]ith [his] platform's debut in 2013." The Petitioner stated: '~-------~ 
formed a partnership with ~-------~ to explore for copper deposits in several highly 
5 
prospective areas ofnorthern Chile. This shows that [the Petitioner] made an original contribution to the 
industry that was adopted by the industry leader in gold and copper mining." 
To support this claim, the Petitioner submitted a 2015 press release from~I___.I which usesDformer 
name and reads, in part: 
Thus we have formed a strategic partnership with.______________ __. to 
explore for copper deposits in a number ofhighly prospective areas ofnorthern Chile . 
. . .c=]is pioneering a new, multidisciplina1y approach to exploration. The company 
has built a world-class team of experts who have a proven track record of copper 
discoveries and expertise in machine learning and big data analysis, among other 
disciplines. Their internal R&D lab uses proprietary technology to develop new strategies 
and tools designed to increase the probability of discovery, faster than conventional 
approaches and at lower costs. They combine world-class technical expertise with cutting­
edge computer science, and they bring in learning from other industries to develop non­
traditional approaches. 
The quoted language is complimenta1y towardD staff and technology, but there is no recognizable 
reference specifically to technology that the Petitioner developed. The latent application submitted with 
the petition dates from July 2018, more than three years afterl press release, and therefore it is 
not evident that the vague phrase "cutting-edge computer science" refers to the technology described in 
the patent application. 
The press release states that I Itechnology represents an improvement over "conventional 
approaches," but does not establish that this improvement has major significance in the field. We note 
that the press release lppears rannounce the beginrng or the partnership betweenl I and 
does not indicate that had yet implemented technology or that the technology had ah-eady 
improved yields. We also note that the partnership withl lbegan nearly five years before the 
Petitioner filed the petition, but his initial filing did not mention this partnership at all. The record is, 
therefore, silent as to the results of the collaboration. 
~--~I general mention ofLJtechnology in its own press release does not show that the Petitioner's 
machine learning contributions have "provoked widrpread f°mmentary" in the field. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. The press release does not suffice to establish 
the major significance of the Petitioner's original contribution. 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner cited "his current endeavor as a chief executive atl [" 
but he did not establish! I until June 2020, three months after he filed the petition. The initial petition 
did not indicate that the Petitioner sought to establish such a company. Rather, the initial filing was 
predicated on his continued involvement with[] which employed him at the time of filing. A petitioner 
must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). If the Petitioner 
was not already eligible at the time of filing, then he cannot become qualified later under a new set of 
facts while retaining the priority date of the same petition. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 
(Reg'l Comm'r 1971). 
6 
In the denial notice, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's patent application, but concluded that the 
Petitioner had not shown "that the patent has been licensed and/or resulted in significant commercial 
sales, or had an impact on researchers or individuals in the field." The Director stated that the submitted 
letters do not establish the major significance of the Petitioner's contributions. The Director observed 
that~-----~did not exist until after the petition's filing date, and thatl Ipress release 
"does not discuss the petitioner or his contributions." 
On appeal, the Petitioner revisits p1ior claims, already addressed above. The Petitioner also states: 
[The Petitioner] is a top-tier researcher in the field of business who has developed and 
deployed new Search & Find methodologies to discover and extract military intelligence, 
as well as to discover minerals. . . . His methodology, which resulted in significant 
classified discoveries by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), earned [the Petitioner] the Israel 
I I 
We have already discussed the award. Before the appeal, the Petitioner had not claimed that his military 
work included contiibutions of major significance. A retired Israeli milita1y officer stated that the 
Petitioner had served on a "multidisciplinary team of senior IDF operational officers" whose work 
included "the application of... Intelligence 'Search-and-Find' methodologies," but he did not elaborate, 
stating only that "a majority of this taskforce's work remains classified," and thus unavailable for wider 
dissemination. He did not state or imply that the Petitioner's work with '"Search-and-Find' 
methodologies" led to his receipt of the Israel~-----~ Rather, he stated that the 
"multidisciplinary team" was active "[ d]uring the years 2008-2009 ," several years after the Petitioner 
received the Israel I lin 2005. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not documented the 
reason why he received that award. 
The Petitioner, on appeal, has not shown that the Director erred in concluding that the Petitioner has not 
established the major significance ofthe original contribution identified in the petition. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion ofthe remaining two criteria, relating 
to leading or critical roles and judging, cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we 
reserve those issues. 2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter olL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work that indicates 
sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner served on a decorated team while working for IDF, but the record does not show that he 
earned national or international acclaim as a result. He submitted publicity materials about the Israel I I but has not shown that he was publicly named as a winner. Whatever valid reasons there 
may have been for not publicizing the Petitioner's name, the Petitioner has not established that his receipt 
of the prize contributed to, or resulted in, national or international acclaim. Also, he has not shown the 
extent to which the prize relates to the field of endeavor in which he claims extraordinary ability. Some 
of the Petitioner's military service involved machine learning software that could be similar to what he 
now applies to the mining industty, but the Petitioner has not established a more direct connection 
between his military and civilian work. 
Praise in the record for the Petitioner's machine learning platform has come from individuals connected 
withO and entities that were funding or doing business with D It is generally expected that one 
whose accomplishments have garnered sustained national or international acclaim would have received 
recognition for his or her accomplishments well beyond the circle ofhis or her personal and professional 
acquaintances. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). Published material about the 
Petitioner's platform consists largely of promotional press releases from entities that have business 
relationships withO and a blog post on Medium. The Petitioner's name does not appear in most of 
these published pieces, which limits the individual acclaim that could result from them. Discussion of 
the Petitioner's machine learning platform centers on tests described in general terms and expectations 
regarding the platform's anticipated future performance, rather than evidence that commercial use ofthe 
system has already yielded results that have had a significant impact on the mining industry. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 