U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9168452 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 1, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a "Principal Business Consultant," seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence of a qualifying one-time achievement or, in the alternative, evidence that he meets 
at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. We summarily dismissed the 
Petitioner's subsequent appeal because it did not include a statement in support of the appeal specifically 
identifying an erroneous conclusion of law or fact in the Director's decision. Although the Petitioner 
indicated that he would submit a brief and/or additional evidence to our office within 30 days of filing 
the appeal, the record did not include a supplemental brief or evidence at the time of adjudication. 
The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider . The Petitioner submits a brief and additional 
evidence addressing the Director's decision and the merits of his case. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements. See 
8 e.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 e.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reconsider the Director's denial of the underlying 
immigrant petition. Instead, the filing is a motion to reconsider the most recent decision, which is our 
summary dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue in this matter is whether the Petitioner has established that our decision to summarily dismiss 
his appeal was based on an incorrect application of law or users policy. 
The regulations provide that an officer to whom an appeal is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal 
when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of 
fact for the appeal. 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). At the time he filed his appeal on August 31, 2018, the 
Petitioner did not submit a statement identifying any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact as 
a basis for the appeal, as instructed on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. The Petitioner 
also submitted no brief or evidence with his Form I-290B but stated that he would submit those 
materials to our office within 30 days. When we reviewed the record of proceeding in October 2019, 
it did not include any supplement to the appeal. As a result, we summarily dismissed the appeal, 
because the appeal, as presented to us, did not identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement 
of fact in the Director's denial of the petition. 
In his brief on motion, the Petitioner acknowledges our summary dismissal of his appeal, but does not 
allege that we misapplied the law or users policy in reaching that decision. Rather, his brief focuses 
on the Director's initial decision to deny his petition. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the summary dismissal of his appeal was incorrect based on the 
evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. Given the record before us on appeal, the 
summary dismissal decision was consistent with users regulations and policy. 
We will not consider the newly submitted motion brief discussing the merits of the case absent evidence 
that we summarily dismissed the appeal in error. The Petitioner has not provided such evidence or 
shown proper grounds for reconsideration. Accordingly, the motion will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12195658 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 1, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer and choreographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish, as required, that she satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal of that decision. The Petitioner now submits a 
combined motion to reopen and reconsider, together with new evidence, and asserts that she meets 
two additional criteria as well as those we decided in her favor in our appellate decision. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must (1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported 
by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that 
the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial 
decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reconsideration, a 
petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of a properly 
completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show proper cause 
for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable requirements . See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The issue before us on motion is whether the Petitioner has either submitted new facts sufficient to 
warrant reopening her appeal and/or established that our decision to dismiss her appeal was based on an 
incorrect application of USCIS law or policy. 
A. AAO Decision 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that she meets four of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material in major trade publications or other major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in her field; 
• (vii), Display of her work in artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director had concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria related to published materials and 
judging the work of others. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (iv). We also determined that the Petitioner 
had met two criteria; however, we withdrew the Director's conclusion that she had submitted sufficient 
evidence to meet the published materials criterion. We concluded that the Director had erred with respect 
to the display of her work at artistic showcases and determined that she did in fact meet that criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner addresses the criteria relating to published materials and leading or critical roles 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (viii). Specifically, she asserts that we overlooked certain evidence that 
was previously submitted and states that she is submitting new evidence establishing that she meets one 
2 
or both of these criteria. For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not submitted new facts 
or evidence establishing that she meets any additional criteria, nor has she shown that our prior 
decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In our appellate decision, we reversed the Director's determination that the Petitioner had satisfied this 
criterion. We noted that, while the Petitioner had submitted copies of articles from various sources, a 
substantial number of them did not qualify as being about her, as this regulation requires. Although 
we concluded that four articles were about the Petitioner and relating to her work, we noted that one 
article from al !newspaper did not identify the author of the material and that none of the articles 
about her were accompanied by sufficient evidence to demonstrate that they qualify as major trade 
publications or other major media. Evidence submitted under this criterion should establish that the 
circulation or distribution ( on-line or in print) is high compared to the circulation statistics of other 
publications. 1 
On appeal, the Petitioner disagrees with our conclusion and emphasizes her submission of articles that 
appeared in OnStage Blog, Madrid Diario, El Diario Vasco and Dance Informa, as well as television 
appearances on TV GLOBO, CUNY TV and New York 4. We acknowledge that we did not 
individually discuss every document submitted in support of this criterion in our decision; however, 
we considered each one in determining whether any of the Petitioner's evidence met all elements of 
this regulation criterion. 
With respect to the OnStage Blog article referenced on appeal, we note this 2019 article post-dates the 
filing of this petition in May 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for 
the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through 
adjudication. 8 C .F .R. § 103 .2(b )( 1 ). While this evidence is new, it cannot establish that the Petitioner 
met this criterion as of the date of filing, even ifwe determined that the article was published in major 
media. 
With respect to the articles that appeared in the Spanish newspapers Madrid Diario and El Diario 
Vasco, we note that the Petitioner previously submitted rankings for these publications from 
Similar Web. This evidence indicated that Madrid Diario has a country rank of 2,819 and El Diario 
Vas co has a country rank of 341. The Petitioner correctly notes that we previously overlooked the fact 
that the original Spanish language article from Madrid Diario identifies the author of the material. 
However, the Petitioner has not established with the current motion that Madrid Diario qualifies as 
major media in Spain. She submits a document from an unidentified source that provides some 
background regarding this newspaper as well as a partially translated screenshot from the Spanish­
language website Auditoria which appears to provide information about the number of times the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html 
3 
Madrid Diario article about her was viewed. However, this new evidence does not establish that 
Madrid Diario qualifies as a major medium when compared to other publications. The Petitioner also 
claims that Diario Vasco, which she describes as a daily newspaper in Spain's I l1xovince, 
meets the "major media" element of this criterion. Although her brief on motion cites some additional 
statistics regarding this newspaper's readership, she has not supported these figures with any 
additional comparative evidence, and instead refers to the Similar Web information that we previously 
reviewed and found to be insufficient. 
Finally, with respect to Dance Informa, we note that the Petitioner previously described this 
publication as "an online platform" that "provides all the information and news dancers need to keep 
current in the industry." The Petitioner previously provided statistics from Similar Web indicating that 
the website has a U.S. ranking of 813,159 and a category ranking of2,698. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains that this publication qualifies as major media and provides information regarding its 
subscriber numbers and the number of visitors to its website which is not supported by any independent 
evidence. The Petitioner also states that Dance Informa "has been ranked #4 on top Dance Magazines 
in the US" by "Feedspot." While she submits a document with the heading "Top 10 Dance Magazines 
and Publications to Follow in 2020" which includes Dance 111/orma, the document does not identify 
the source of this list or what criteria were used to compile it. 
In addition to the print media discussed above, the Petitioner emphasizes on appeal that she has 
appeared on TV Globo, CUNY TV, and another local New York television channel. With respect to 
her TV Globo appearance, the Petitioner submits a one-page document that includes five photos and/or 
still shots taken from a video interview, and what appears to be an excerpt from an e-mail from an 
individual identified as a "news producer" pitching the idea of a story about the choreography in the 
movie La La Land. The Petitioner's brief contains information regarding Brazilian television network 
TV Globo, describing it as "the largest commercial TV network in Latin America," but the record does 
not contain any independent evidence regarding the network or even identify the specific program for 
which the Petitioner was interviewed. Further, the submitted screen shots are not accompanied by a 
transcript of the interview, and the record does not establish when it aired. The other two television 
appearances she highlights in her appeal were aired on local New York television stations. Although 
she submits screenshots taken from the video interviews, she has not established that either appearance 
aired on "major media" and has not submitted transcripts of the interviews. The Petitioner has not 
established that her television appearances meet all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Overall, the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence on motion that establishes that she meets the 
published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Further, she has not established that our 
previous determination with respect to this criterion was incorrect based on the evidence of record at 
the time of our decision, or that it involved an incorrect application of the law or USCIS policy to the 
facts presented. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
4 
With respect to this criterion, a title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
petitioner's role is or was, in fact, leading. 2 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate 
that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organizations or establishments must be recognized as having a distinguished 
reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence. 3 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's leading role as co-founder and co-artistic 
director of I I but concluded that she had not submitted evidence to demonstrate that I I enjoys a distinguished reputation. We also noted that while the Petitioner provided 
evidence that she had served as a dance instructor for several dance schools, she had not shown how 
her part-time faculty positions were leading or critical to these organizations, or submitted sufficient 
ob·ective evidence of these or anizations' reputations. Finally, we acknowledged a letter from the 
.__ ________________ .__;c::..:o;;.;:;n:c:fc:;;;irc.:cm:;;;;;i;;;;,ng that the Petitioner had served as a "team leader" 
and "Rehearsal Director" for its annual .__~ __ _. event. However, we found that the letter did not 
establish how her activities for this event amounted to a leading or critical role for this organization. 
For example, we noted that the record indicated that there were several team leaders and rehearsal 
directors assigned to serve as assistants to choreographers. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence she submitted in support of this criterion was 
"largely overlooked" and contends that she submitted testimonial evidence that clearly detailed her 
"irreplaceable role" in several organizations. 
As noted, we acknowledged the Petitioner's leading role as co-founder of~------~but 
found insufficient evidence of this dance company's distinguished reputation. In her brief on motion, 
the Petitioner emphasizes that her dance company has been very active since 2011, "producing, touring 
and doing shows, events, videos." She emphasizes the company's longevity, and its appearance at 
"reputable and known festivals inl I' including some that are invitation only and some 
with very competitive application processes, such as the '-------------~ 
With respect to the referenced testimonial evidence, the Petitioner notes thatl lrefers 
to I I as "an acclaimed" dance company with impressive accomplishments that 
include "award winning choreography, commissions, foll length shows." I I describes 
as a "crowd favorite" that receives "great feedback from audiences."I I 1======·1 A_rt___,istic Director forl I states thatl hs the only professional 
dance company to be presented on two different seasons of the Open Series." He emphasizes the 
"creativity, originality and technical accomplishment" of the company's work. 
The Petitioner also submits two new reference letters on apoeal, froml I ofi I and 
professional dancer and choreographer I r Although they mention the Petitioner's 
leading role wit~ I their statements do not offer any new information regarding this 
dance company's distinguished reputation in the field. The testimonial evidence provided, while 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
3 Id at 10-11. 
5 
complimentary to the Petitioner and her dance company, does not establish the company's 
distinguished reputation. 
As noted in our appellate decision, the Petitioner also relied on documentation ofl l's 
performances in support of her claim that it enjoys a distinguished reputation among dance companies. 
While the company's performances are well documented and the testimonials discussed above indicate 
that the company has received praise from members of the dance community, there is insufficient 
corroborating evidence of the .__ ______ ____.s standing in the field to establish that it 1s 
recognized as having a distinguished reputation "marked by eminence, distinction or excellence." 
The Petitioner also asserts that she has been "a critical faculty member of.__ ________ ____. 
Company since 2015" and that she has provided chorography, dance instruction and umque 
performances on behalf of the company. A previously-submitted letter from I I states 
that she applied to his company as a dancer in 2015 and joined the company as an understudy; he does 
not refer to her as a "critical faculty member" but notes that she currently assists with teaching and 
coaching repertory to new members. He indicates that, as of O 2019, the Petitioner is a female 
soloist, and he states that he currently considers her a "key leader in the company both as a dancer and 
an inspiration/subject to create new pieces for the company."! I also states that the 
Petitioner "contributes significantly to the company as a dancer" and notes that audiences attend events 
specifically to see her perform. The record contains a media review of.__ ________ __. 
Company's! 120191 F show which briefly mentions the Petitioner's performance 
with L I in a piece titled j t but does not include evidence suggesting that she 
was serving as the organization's lead dancer, particularly given that the record reflects that she has 
been running her own dance company. A screenshot from the company's website simply identifies 
her as one of the dancers in the company. 
This evidence does not establish that the Petitioner had served in a lead with this dance company at 
the time of filing. Further, although I I uses the terms "leader" and "critical" in his letter, 
he does not explain in detail how she contributed in way that has been of significant importance to the 
outcome of his dance company's activities. For example, while he states that audiences are drawn to 
her performances, the record does not demonstrate her impact on attendance at his company's shows, 
such as by showing higher receipts for programs in which she is featured. Vague letters that simply 
repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how the petitioner's roles were leading or critical 
are not persuasive evidence. Merely repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy 
the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 
1989), aff1d, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); see also Avyr Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, No. 95 CIV. 
10729, *l, *5 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 18, 1997). 
The Petitioner further emphasizes that she identified "numerous dance studios where she taught both 
ongoing classes as well as workshops and master classes." She mentions several of them as being 
"best in the world and ranked amongst the top by several sources ... which implies that the hiring 
process is highly competitive and only the best teachers and instructors are offered positions." 
However, the issue before us in evaluating this criterion is not the competitive nature of obtaining an 
instructor position with these studios, but whether the role itself was leading or critical. As we 
emphasized in our appellate decision, serving on the faculty of an institution is not inherently a critical 
6 
role and does not demonstrate that she significantly contributed to the outcome of an organization's 
activities as a whole. 
On motion, the Petitioner specifically references her role with California dance school I , I I I A letter from this dance school's director! I confirms that the 
Petitioner has twice choregraphed pieces for its dancers participating in thel I I I, which is described as a "worldwide ballet competition." She indicates that both pieces 
resulted in successes for the school's participating dancers, with one piece shared at the event's finals 
in I I and the other winning a third-place finish regionally. I I states that this 
recognition from I l"helps us with marketing and in our standing as a reputable studio." However, 
the letter does not sufficiently explain how the Petitioner's contribution of two chore graphed pieces 
was so significant that it has critical to the outcome of the organization's activities as a whole. Further, 
the record does not include independent evidence that .__ ___________ ___, has a 
distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that she believes "the AAO is not acknowledging the leading role [she] has 
in [the I I." She states that 'I t would not have been possible without her contributions to 
"creating, teaching and running rehearsals." However, as discussed in our previous decision, the 
evidence does not establish that she held a leading role for I I or that her contributions to thel I 
Qvent were critical to the outcome ofl las a whole. Letters froml lconfirmed that she was 
one of several team leaders and rehearsal directors assisting the event's choreographer. While the I I 
letters conveyed that she is a valued member of the organization and an "important asset," they do not 
support the Petitioner's claim thatl I would not have been possible without her or that her 
activities forl I amount to a leading or critical role for this organization. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not submitted new evidence on motion to establish 
that she meets the leading or critical roles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Further, she has 
not established that our previous determination with respect to this criterion was incorrect based on 
the evidence of record at the time of our decision, or that it involved an incorrect application of the 
law or USCIS policy to the facts presented. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision, nor 
does her new evidence on motion establish that she meets at least three criteria. Accordingly, the 
motions will be dismissed. 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by 
a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of 
any judicial proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The 
Petitioner, however, did not include the required statement. For this additional reason, the Petitioner's 
motions do not meet the applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23396779 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 1, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an athlete, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1 l 53(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner 
appealed; however, we dismissed the appeal, concluding that the record does not establish that the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner filed a subsequent 
motion to reopen, in which he requests "the opportunity to remedy the results of the ineffective 
assistance of counsel by submitting anew [sic] response to the USCIS request of additional evidence." 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original application. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation , the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(i). 
Accordingly, we examine any new facts to the extent that they pertain to our prior dismissal of the 
Petitioner's appeal. 
In support of the motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits a brief, asserting that his prior attorney, who 
represented the Petitioner at the time of filing the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
through the time of our decision on the appeal, was thereafter suspended by the Florida Bar for 
violations of Florida rules of professional conduct in 2019. The Petitioner also asserts that he has 
satisfied the requirements of Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. 637 (BIA 1988), aff'd, 857 F.2d 10 (1st 
Cir. 1988), "to the best of his ability." The Petitioner further asserts that the Director is "the official 
having jurisdiction over this matter" because the Director "is the official who made the latest decision 
in the proceeding," citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
Also in support of the motion, the Petitioner submits an attestation, in which he asserts, in relevant 
part, the following: 
The [a]ttorney ... advised to file [a]ppeal and submitted Fonn I-120B [sic] on April 
26, 2018. 
Attorney ... ineffectively submitted Form I-120 [sic]. I won _____ 
__ Award aftersubmittingmy Forml-140 and the attorney requested to re-open 
my case based on this new fact. 
Form I-290B was dismissed on November 28, 2018. 
The Petitioner does not otherwise address on motion to reopen a fact that existed at the time of filing 
the petition that his prior attorney failed to address on appeal. 
First, because the Petitioner appealed the Director's decision and the Administrative Appeals Office 
(AAO) made a decision on the appeal, the AAO has jurisdiction over this motion to reopen. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner's prior attorney has been suspended from the practice of law by 
the Florida Bar, and we further acknowledge that the Petitioner requests "approval of this motion to 
reopen the proceeding to be allowed to submit anew [sic] response to the USCIS' request for additional 
evidence." However, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N 
Dec. 637. 
In Matter of Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. 63 7, the Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) established a 
framework for asserting and assessing claims of ineffective assistance of counsel. The Board set forth 
the following documentary requirements for asserting a claim of ineffective assistance: 
• A written affidavit of the petitioner attesting to the relevant facts. The affidavit 
should provide a detailed description of the agreement with former counsel (i.e., 
the specific actions that counsel agreed to take), the specific actions actually taken 
by former counsel, and any representations that former counsel made about his or 
her actions. 
• Evidence that the petitioner informed former counsel of the allegation of ineffective 
assistance and was given an opportunity to respond. Any response by prior counsel 
2 
(or report of former counsel's failure or refusal to respond) should be submitted 
with the claim. 
• If the petitioner asserts that the handling of the case violated former counsel's 
ethical or legal responsibilities, evidence that the petitioner filed a complaint with 
the appropriate disciplinary authorities ( e.g., with a state bar association) or an 
explanation why the petitioner did not file a complaint. 
Id. at 639. These documentary requirements are designed to ensure we possess the essential 
information necessary to evaluate ineffective assistance claim and to deter meritless claims. Id. 
Allowing former counsel to present his or her version of events discourages baseless allegations, and 
the requirement of a complaint to the appropriate disciplinary authorities is intended to eliminate any 
incentive for counsel to collude with his or her client in disparaging the quality of the representation. 
Id. Counsel's acceptance of responsibility for error does not satisfy the requirementto file a complaint 
with the appropriate disciplinary authority, particularly where the ineffective assistance allegation is 
provided by the same attorney. Matter of Melgar, 28 I&N Dec. 169, 170 (BIA 2020). 
In addition to these documentaryrequirements, a petitioner must show that former counsel's assistance 
was so deficient that the petitioner was prejudiced by the performance. Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. at 632; 
Melgar, 28 I&N Dec. at 171. 1 Specifically, a petitioner must demonstrate a reasonable probability 
that, but for counsel's error, they would have prevailed on their claim. Melgar, 28 I&N Dec. at 171. 
Harmless error is insufficient. See Lozada, 19 I&N Dec. at 639 ( explaining that individuals are 
"generally bound by the conduct of their attorneys absent egregious circumstances"). 
In this case, the Petitioner submitted an affidavit in support of the motion to reopen, attesting to 
relevant facts. However, the Petitioner did not submit in support of the motion to reopen evidence 
that he informed his former counsel of the allegation of ineffective assistance of counsel and that his 
former counsel had the opportunity to respond, as required by Lozada. Id. The Petitioner also did not 
submit in support of the motion to reopen evidence that he filed a complaint with the appropriate 
disciplinary authorities or an explanation why he did not file a complaint, as required by Lozada. Id. 
Instead, the Petitioner asserts on motion that "failure to comply with the Lozada requirements may not 
be considered where the alleged ineffective assistance is plain on the face of the administrative record." 
The Petitioner also asserts that "failure to report attorney's misconduct to a disciplinary authority or 
to confront his attorney direction where such action would have been futile is excused." However, the 
Petitioner cites only cases in the Ninth Circuit to support his assertions, and Ninth Circuit opinions are 
advisory, not binding, in the state of Florida, where the Petitioner resides and the attorney in question 
practiced law. Furthermore, as discussed below, even if the Petitioner had satisfied the Lozada 
requirements, the Petitioner does not establish that the outcome would have been different, but for his 
prior attorneys actions or inactions. 
Next, the facts presented on motion that address the eligibility criteria at section 203(b )(1) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h) may not establish eligibility. Specifically, as noted above, the Petitioner 
1 In Lozada, the Board determined that Lozada was not prejudiced by counsel's failure to file an appeal brief (resulting in 
the summary dismissal of the appeal) because: he received a full and fair hearing at his deportation hearing, at which he 
was given every opportunity to present his case; he did not allege any inadequacy in the quality of prior counsel's 
representation at the hearing; the immigration judge considered and properly evaluated all the evidence presented;and the 
immigrationjudge's decision was supported by the record. 
3 
asserts on motion that he won an award "after submitting my Form I-140." The Petitioner does not 
otherwise address on motion to reopen a fact material to first preference eligibility that may affect the 
disposition of this matter. 
A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
Because the facts presented on motion that address eligibility criteria at section 203 (b )(1) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h) occurred "aftersubmittingmy Fonnl-140," as the Petitionerasse1is, they may 
not establish eligibility. See id. Accordingly, the record does not establish that the Petitioner has met 
at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Moreover, the Petitioner's assertion that his prior attorney "ineffectively" addressed on appeal that the 
Petitioner "won Award after submitting my Form I-140"is misplaced. In 
our decision, we noted several lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor that the Petitioner had received before the petition filing date, and 
we acknowledged that the record satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Therefore, even 
if the award the Petitioner received after the petition filing date could establish eligibility, which it 
cannot, it would not aff ectthe outcome of the appeal because we already found thatthe record satisfies 
the applicable criterion. 
Because the Petitioner does not offer any new facts supported by documentary evidence on motion to 
reopen that may establish eligibility, we will dismiss the motion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of Lozada. Further, the Petitioner has not offered 
new facts supported by documentary evidence on motion demonstrating eligibility for the benefit 
sought. The Petitioner's underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 1, 2023 In Re: 25693008 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor of English, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that he 
satisfied the regulatory requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) which requires, in pertinent part, "clear 
evidence that the [individual] is coming to the United States to continue to work in the area of 
expertise." The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation to establish his 
eligibility under any of the ten regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 1 Moreover, citing 
to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established "by clear 
evidence that [he] is coming to the United States to continue work in the area ofexpertise...." because 
the Petitioner's area of expertise was psychoanalysis, which conflicted with his stated intention to 
teach and perform research in the field of English language and literature. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a statement, explaining that his doctorate degree is in English and 
that he intends to teach English language and literature, and that his research will benefit the United 
States by using psychological theories found in literature to improve the mental health of Americans. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that contrary to the Director's conclusion that his field of expertise 
is psychology, his intention is to teach English language and literature. The Petitioner also explains 
that he is submitting new recommendations letters that make clear he will teach in the field of English 
language and Literature and that the authors of the letters previously submitted stating that he was 
going to teach "trauma studies" were not aware of his future plans in the United States, and only "his 
inclination [] towards psychology." Nonetheless, the Petitioner has provided contradictory 
information that has not been sufficiently resolved. For example, the cover letter accompanying his 
petition, and signed by him on May 13, 2022, states he will continue his research in the area of"trauma 
studies and psychoanalysis." Furthermore, other documents also claim that he has a doctorate in 
trauma studies, including the printout of a portion of the Petitioner's own book in the publication, 
Scholars' Press, which states 1 !qualified his doctorate on Trauma Studies in 2018 fromIUniversity, India .... His interests include psychoanalysis proposed by [Freud], 
[Lacan], [Jung], and [Adler]." A petitioner must resolve inconsistencies in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). Unresolved material inconsistencies may lead us to reevaluate the reliability and 
sufficiency of other evidence submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. 
1 We acknowledge the Director's typographical error regarding the criterion for authorship of scholarly mticles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media and note that the Petitioner addresses this criterion on 
appeal. 
2 I 
Therefore, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not provided sufficiently clear evidence 
that he is coming to the United States to continue to work in his area of expertise as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
On appeal, the Petitioner again asserts that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 04.5(h)(3)(iii),(iv), and 
(vi). 2 
Evidence ofthe person's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied.field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the evidence did not meet the plain language of the criterion because the 
reviews he conducted were in the field of psychology, and not in English Language or Literature. On 
appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's conclusion and submits documentation that he asserts 
establishes his role as an adviser and evaluator of doctoral students in his field. 
A petitioner may be able to meet this criterion by "serving as a member of a Ph.D. dissertation 
committee that makes the final judgment as to whether a candidate's body of work satisfies the 
requirements for a doctoral degree, as evidenced by departmental records." See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l)(criterion 4), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Moreover, a petitioner 
must show that the individuals he is judging are in the same or allied field. Id. The Petitioner's 
evidence does not establish this criterion for several reasons. First, the individuals he was judging 
appear to be students, and not yet professionals in the "same or allied field." Second, while we 
acknowledge that the Petitioner was invited to be a panelist at the "Department Doctoral Board" and 
on the "Research Advisory Committee" for Ph.D. pre-submission evaluation, his role was as an 
advisor to students seeking a Ph.D. rather than as a judge making a "final judgement" about the 
individual's satisfaction of the requirements for a doctoral degree. 
The provided evaluations show that his role was advisory in nature and not as a judge making a final 
determination regarding the candidate's eligibility for a Ph.D. For example, his evaluation comments 
for one student shows that he was advising her to "unearth uniqueness in the area of proposed topic." 
Another evaluation shows him advising the student to "narrow down the theoretical framework to four 
theories which he would apply on the criminal characters depicted in the anthology to comprehend the 
depth of crime." We acknowledge that he appears to be a faculty member and that in this role, he has 
been asked to advise students seeking a Ph.D., however the evidence is insufficient to show that he 
has participated as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the same or allied field for the above stated reasons. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
As such, he has not met this criterion. 
Because the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility under at least one criterion and would 
therefore be unable to reach the requisite minimum of at least three criteria under step one of 
Kazarian 's analytical framework, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate 
2 As the Petitioner does not address the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and (v) regarding membership and original 
contributions, we consider them waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter 
ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)) (an issue not raised on appeal is considered waived). 
3 
arguments regarding the two remaining claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)3 and (vi). 
See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make 
findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of 
L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where 
an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
While we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 
1119-20, we note that the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. We have long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 We do note, however that the article by.__ ______ _,incorrectly states that the Petitioner obtained a Ph.D. in 
Trauma Studies ('Oeamed his doctorate in Trauma Studies in 2018") and that he has contributed to the field ofTrauma 
Studies through his publications. As above, this information conflicts with the Petitioner's own evidence that he obtained 
a Ph.D. in English in 2018, as well as the education evaluation he provided to show he has a Ph.D. in English. We also 
note that the article by I lwas inexplicably published in the Journal of Cardiovascular Disease Research. The 
Petitioner should address these inconsistencies in any future filings. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 2, 2024 In Re: 33967269 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitor, seeks to classify himself as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 
The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 
10 initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [ noncitizen ]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
On the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, the Petitioner described the proposed 
employment he seeks as "Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Athlete." As noted above, the Director concluded the 
record does not establish the Petitioner received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award. The Director further determined that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, 
at least three of the 10 criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Specifically, the Director 
determined that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii). However, the 
Director also concluded that the record does not satisfy the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii), 
(v), and (vii). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that, in addition to satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (viii), the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii), (v), and 
(vii). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (ix)-(x), thereby waiving these criteria. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 
762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 237 (2008) (upholding the party 
presentation rule)). The Petitioner does not overcome the Director's denial for the reasons discussed 
below. 
Documentation of the [noncitizen 's] receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner competed in various Brazilian 
Jtu-Jttsu tournaments. However, the Director distinguished Adult and Master classifications, 
observing, "Generally speaking, the top competitors compete in the Adult division, which in turn 
would mean that the small percentage of competitors who have risen to the very top of the sport as 
competitors would compete in the Adult division." In contrast, the Director noted that the Master 
classification "is reserved for those who are over 30 years old," not necessarily those who have risen 
to the very top of the sport as competitors. Based on that distinction, the Director did not "consider 
the honors earned by the [P]etitioner in the various Masters Divisions to qualify him under this 
criterion." 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the record establishes he has won various awards at Brazilian 
jiu-jitsu tournaments, including awards for first place at two international open championships held in 
California in 2019. The Petitioner also asserts that the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) does not 
preclude age-based classifications within competitions from lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. The Petitioner resubmits evidence 
summarizing the results of the various tournaments in which he participated. 
The Director appears to conflate the criteria of a final merits analysis-whether the record shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top ofthe field of endeavor-with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115. The plain language, "[d]ocumentation ofthe [noncitizen's] receipt oflesser 
nationally or internationally recognizes prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor," does 
not impose a requirement that the prizes or awards in question must have been earned while competing 
against "the small percentage of competitors who have risen to the very top of the sport as 
competitors," as the Director suggests. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Thus, the issue is not whether the 
Petitioner earned the awards in question while competing against "the small percentage ofcompetitors 
who have risen to the very top of the sport as competitors" but, rather, whether the record establishes 
the prizes or awards are for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
We acknowledge that the record contains documentation that the Petitioner received various awards 
for finishing within the top three places for his particular belt color and weight classification at various 
Brazilian jiu-jitsu tournaments between 2013 and 2022. However, the tournament results-and the 
record in general-do not provide sufficient context to establish that the results indicate prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 For example, neither the tournament results 
specifically nor the record in general establish the criteria for entry into the tournament and how many 
participants there were for the belt color and weight classifications in which the Petitioner competed. 
We note that many results for a given belt color and weight classification among the tournament results 
indicate two or even just one finalist, indicating that, in many cases, awardees received their prizes or 
awards for being among the few or only participants, not for excellence in the field ofendeavor. Thus, 
even when the Petitioner placed among the top three finalists, the record does not establish how such 
a prize or award resulted from excellence, rather than from being among only three participants in a 
given belt color and weight classification at a given tournament. 
Without more probative, relevant evidence, the Petitioner has not established that he received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Therefore, the Petitioner does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation ofthe [noncitizen 's] membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting a prize or award was excellence in the field include, but 
are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the prize or award; the national or international significance of the prize or 
award in the field; the number of awardees or prize recipients; and limitations on competitors. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 
The Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner holds a first-degree black belt in 
Brazilian jiu-jitsu. However, the Director noted that the record establishes a first-degree black belt 
"can be requested after 'a minimum of 3 years of proven activity,"' rather than requiring outstanding 
achievements. The Director further observed that the record does not establish that "any specific belt 
level or degree of that belt level that requires any more 'outstanding achievements' to obtain than 
another ... belt level or degree ofa belt color." Therefore, the Director concluded that the record does 
not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the 
requirements for a first-degree black belt in Brazilian jiu-jitsu "reflect a high level of expertise, 
dedication, and achievement in the sport." He also reasserts that he "was judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought" in order to receive his first-degree black belt and, thus, that it satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record establishes that the International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) awarded the 
Petitioner a first-degree black belt certificate on December 26, 2018. The record contains an excerpt 
from the TBJJF's General System of Graduation, which, in relevant part, indicates that the 
requirements to apply for a black belt certificate, in addition to a minimum age of 16, include the 
following: 
• Must be affiliated to IBJJF at the time of the request. 
• The athlete cannot have a provisional graduation (see Article 7). 
• Must provide a First Aid or CPR course certificate. 
• Must provide an IBJJF Referee Training Program, Rules Seminar or Rules Webinar 
Certificate of successful completion dated within a 12 (twelve) month period before 
the date of application. 
The General System of Graduation excerpt also states that, generally, membership requests "must be 
signed/approved by an TBJJF affiliated Black Belt Professor." The document further indicates that a 
first-degree black belt "can be requested after a minimum period of 3 (three) years of proven activity 
in the Black Belt under IBJJF," and that such activity can be proven through the following: 
• Active membership: Maintaining active membership through the year(s). 
• Academy registration under IBJJF: listed as a Head Professor or Additional 
Professor. 
• Approving students: Professors who regularly approve athletes' membership 
requests under IBJJF through the year(s). 
• Black Belt/Degree Certification previously granted by TBJJF. 
• Titles won by the athlete in an IBJJF championship. 
• IBJJF Referee Training Program Certificate and Rules Course Certificate, both 
granted by TBJJF. 
Neither the General System of Graduation excerpt nor the remainder ofthe record establish that either 
a black belt in general, or a first-degree black belt specifically, require outstanding achievements of 
their members as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
As quoted above, the requirements for a black belt include the minimum age of 16, completion of 
certain medical and rules training programs, and "affiliat[ion] to TBJJF at the time of the request," not 
4 
outstanding achievements. In contrast, qualification for a first-degree black belt requires certain 
activity in a given year, but neither the General System of Graduation excerpt nor the remainder of the 
record indicates that an individual must satisfy all six-or even more than one-of the criteria to 
establish activity in a given year. Two ofthe six criteria (receipt ofthe black belt, and training program 
certificates) for a first-degree black belt appear to have been already satisfied upon receipt ofthe black 
belt, two other criteria apply only to IBJJF professors, and one of the other two remaining criteria 
simply contemplates "[m ]aintaining active membership," not outstanding achievements. 
We acknowledge that one of the six criteria for a first-degree black belt contemplates "[t]itles won by 
the athlete in an IBJJF championship." However, the General System of Graduation excerpt does not 
specify a minimum number of titles that must be won or, as discussed above, whether an individual 
must actually compete against other athletes, rather than receiving a title by default as the only 
participant in a given belt color and weight classification. Further, the plain language of the General 
System of Graduation excerpt is that simply maintaining active membership for three years as a black 
belt satisfies the eligibility criteria for a first-degree black belt, regardless of whether the individual in 
question has won any titles. Thus, although some first-degree black belts may have accomplished 
outstanding achievements, the IBJJF does not require outstanding achievements for membership as 
either a black belt in general or as a first-degree black belt specifically as judged by recognized national 
or international experts in their disciplines or fields. Therefore, the Petitioner does not satisfy the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the [noncitizen] in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the [noncitizen 's] work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains "articles about the [Petitioner] relating to his 
work, but [the Petitioner] submitted no independent evidence that establishes that they are in major 
trade publications or other major media." The Director also observed that the record does not establish 
that the Petitioner "is commonly referred to [by a name other than his legal name] within the BJJ 
community" and, thus, articles referring to an individual with a name other than the Petitioner's legal 
name do not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Based on those issues, the Director 
concluded that the record does not contain published material about the Petitioner in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, relating to the Petitioner's work in the field for which 
classification is sought. 
On appeal, the Petitioner generally asserts that "[t]he internet articles submitted ... adhere to high 
standards of journalism comparable to traditional print media." The Petitioner also states that he 
submitted various articles about individuals other than him "to illustrate that the articles about him 
were published in recognized platforms with significant circulation and credibility in the BJJ and 
sports communities-as compared to other publications." The Petitioner further asserts that articles 
in the record that refer to an individual with a name other than the Petitioner's legal name, bearing 
photographs of the Petitioner, establish that the Brazilian jiu-jitsu community commonly refers to the 
Petitioner by a name other than his legal name; therefore, those articles about an individual with a 
name other than the Petitioner's legal name are about the Petitioner. 
5 
The record contains copies of various articles about Brazilian jiu-jitsu, published by various entities, 
hosted at various URLs. We acknowledge that the entities that published the various articles about 
Brazilian jiu-jitsu appear to be forms of trade publications. 2 However, the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) contemplates "major trade publications or other major media," not merely some form 
oftrade publication. The record contains generalized internet traffic data from Similarweb about some 
of the entities that published various articles about Brazilian jiu-jitsu; however, the internet traffic data 
does not establish how any of those entities qualify as major trade publications as contemplated by the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). For example, internet traffic data for "extra.globo.com" appears 
to indicate that, in April 2023, it had 41.4 million total visits, with average durations of 57 seconds, 
visiting an average of 1.51 webpages per visit, and that 96.99% of its visitors were from internet 
protocol addresses based in Brazil. However, the record does not contextualize the statistics, indicate 
their significance, or demonstrate that "extra.globo.com" qualifies as a major trade publication or other 
major media, as contemplated by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The remainder of the 
internet traffic data in the record bears similar inconclusive information. 
For the reasons addressed above, the record does not contain published material about the Petitioner 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the Petitioner's work in 
the field for which classification is sought; therefore, the Petitioner does not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the [noncitizen 's] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner "helped organize a BJJ 
tournament." However, the Director observed that the record does not establish how the Petitioner's 
help to organize one Brazilian jiu-jitsu tournament constitutes an original contribution of major 
significance in the field. Therefore, the Director concluded that the record does not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the I I event he coordinated constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance in the field, and he references the following evidence: "Letters 
from ...] articles in the I I Jornal[, ... and] 
photographic evidence and promotional materials." 
The letters from _____________ summarize the I I event; however, they 
do not establish how the event was of major significance in the field. For example, they describe the 
"well-organized and meaningful event" as "symbolic fights," which "drew participants from various 
Brazilian states" and raised "1.5 tons of food" donated to a church, which "engendered a collective 
consciousness ofresponsibility and philanthropy among participants and attendees." I I 
elaborates that the food-raising efforts were specifically significant to him and the church that received 
the donated food, "where I am the Leader of the Project," but 
he does not clarify how the food-donation-raising charity event was of major significance in the field 
2 In evaluating whether a submitted publication is major media, relevant factors include the relative circulation, readership, 
or viewership. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 
of Brazilian jiu-jitsu more broadly. opines that "the event exemplifies the trne spirit 
of Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu-a martial art that transcends the boundaries of the mats to impact society 
positively," but he does not specify how the event may have been of major significance in the field of 
Brazilian jiu-jitsu. 
In tum, the copy of a one-page article published by Jomal in the record reiterates 
information contained in the above-referenced letters, regarding participants from unspecified states, 
food collection, and general event activities. Copies of photographs and promotional materials in the 
record indicate that the event occurred in a small, multipurpose gymnasium. 
We acknowledge the merit of the I Itournament's "symbolic fights" and food donations. 
However, the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) contemplates "contributions of major significance 
in the field" ofBrazilian jiu-jitsu. Because the record does not establish how thel !tournament 
was of major significance in the field of Brazilian jiu-jitsu, the Petitioner does not satisfy the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Evidence ofthe display ofthe [noncitizen 's] work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director acknowledged that the record establishes the Petitioner "participated in athletic 
competitions as a competitor that were shown to the public." However, the Director observed that the 
record does not establish that the athletic competitions were "put on display as part of an artistic 
exhibition or showcase." The Director noted that "it is inherent to the [Brazilian jiu-jitsu athlete] 
occupation to participate in events that may or may not be publicly viewed" and that "[t]hese events 
are not artistic exhibitions designed to showcase the participant's work in the same sense that a painter 
or sculptor displays his work in a gallery or museum." Based on those issues, the Director concluded 
the record does not satisfy the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitions "can qualify as art1st1c 
exhibitions or showcases" because ofwhat he characterizes as an "established understanding ofmartial 
arts as a form of self-expressive performance." In support of the alleged "established understanding," 
the Petitioner generally references on appeal articles written by Dr. Deborah Klens-Bigman and Daniel 
Berger, which the Petitioner also cited throughout the record. The Petitioner further characterizes a 
non-precedential 2005 Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) decision as having set a precedent the 
Director ignored. 
The Petitioner's references to Dr. Klens-Bigman and Mr. Berger's articles throughout the record, 
including on appeal, are unpersuasive. Dr. Klens-Bigman specifically clarified in a publicly available, 
2007 essay published on the internet that, in the article the Petitioner quoted throughout the record, 
Toward a Theory of Martial Arts as Performance Art, "I was not addressing sports or martial art sport 
forms. That sports have no narrative drive and that it is incorrect to assign one to them is obvious .... 
To the extent performance studies considers sports, they come under the rnbric of public 
entertainments or spectacle." Deborah Klens-Bigman, Yet More Towards a Theory ofMartial Arts as 
Peiforming Art, In Yo: Journal of Alternative Perspectives, Electronic Journals of Martial Arts and 
Sciences (Dec. 2007), https://ejmas.com/jalt/2007jalt/jcsart_klens_0712.html. Rather, Dr. Klens­
Bigman explained, her theory applies to certain martial arts forms that are akin to conveying narratives 
7 
through symbolic dances. See id. Given that Dr. Klens-Bigman has specifically stated that her theory 
ofmartial arts as perfonnance art excludes "martial art sport forms," which she characterizes as "public 
entertainments," the Petitioner's references to Dr. Klens-Bigman's theory ofmartial arts as performing 
art in the context of the martial art sport form of Brazilian jiu-jitsu is unpersuasive. 
In turn, the excerpts from Mr. Berger's articles, quoted by the Petitioner in response to the Director's 
RFE and referenced on appeal, address "mixed martial arts," which we acknowledge may include 
Brazilian jiu-jitsu. However, Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defmes "exhibition" as "a public 
showing (as of works of art, objects of manufacture, or athletic skill)." Exhibition, Merriam-Webster, 
www.merriam-webster.com. While the dictionary definition includes public showings other than 
those that are artistic in nature, the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
includes the modifier "artistic" and it explicitly requires that the exhibitions or showcases be artistic 
in nature, thus, not those displaying athletic skill. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) 
only considers non-artistic exhibitions or showcases as part of a properly supported claim of 
comparable evidence. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). The Petitioner 
asserts on appeal that "BJJ tournaments . . . satisfy[] the definitions of artistic exhibitions or 
showcases," not that the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) does not apply, and that such 
tournaments are non-artistic exhibitions or showcases that may establish comparable evidence. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). Because the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) specifically excludes non­
artistic competitions (such as those displaying athletic skill), and because Brazilian jiu-jitsu 
tournaments are athletic and competitive, not artistic, in nature, they do not satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Furthermore, because the Petitioner does not assert that Brazilian jiu-jitsu 
tournaments may establish evidence comparable to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) rather 
than qualifying under that criterion outright, we do not consider those non-artistic exhibitions or 
showcases as comparable evidence as contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) . 
Next, the Petitioner rnischaracterizes a non-precedential AAO decision from 2005. The Petitioner 
erroneously states that "USCIS ... omitted consideration of the precedent set by the AAO decision 
EAC 03 112 51446 (Dec. 22, 2005)." However, this decision was not published as a precedent and, 
therefore, does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3( c ). Setting aside 
this non-precedential decision's non-binding nature, it also does not bear instructive or persuasive 
value to the Petitioner's case. The Petitioner asserts on appeal that the petitioner in the 2005 case, "a 
Music Director/Pianist/Vocal Coach, met the criterion [at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii)] through 
performances at exclusive showcases designed for audience entertainment." However, we specifically 
observed in that case, "Not every performance is an artistic exhibition or showcase," as contemplated 
by the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We acknowledged in that case that "programs and fliers 
reveal that the petitioner has performed at exclusive showcases ofopera and other music [ and] received 
equal billing with the singers he accompanied," persuading us that the record in that case satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) as applied to those facts. Beyond the differing evidence in the 
two cases' records, the 2005 case addressed an individual who worked as a music director, pianist, 
and vocal coach, not a Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitor like the Petitioner in the case on appeal. The 
Petitioner does not establish how a non-precedential case about an individual who worked as a music 
director, pianist, and vocal coach bears persuasive or instructive value to him, as a Brazilian jiu-jitsu 
competitor, and whether Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitions may qualify as artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. Therefore, the non-precedential 2005 case does not inform how the Petitioner satisfies the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established he received a one-time achievement or, in the alternative, evidence 
that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 n.7. Nevertheless, we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) ofthe Act; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19335708 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sound editor and designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish , as required, that the Petitioner has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, 
internationally recognized award), or that he meets at least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of establishing eligibility for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the 
Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. As set forth below, we will reject the appeal. 
The record reflects that the Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, and the Form G-28, Notice of 
Entry of Apf earance of Attorney or Accredited Representative accompanying the appeal were signed 
by attorney I and not the Petitioner , in the spaces designated for such 
signatures . 
Other than the exceptions specifically provided therein, the regulations do not permit any individual 
who is not the petitioner to sign a benefit request. Specifically , the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2) 
provides : 
Signature. An applicant or petitioner must sign his or her benefit request. However, a 
parent or legal guardian may sign for a person who is less than 14 years old. A legal 
guardian may sign for a mentally incompetent person. By signing the benefit request, 
the applicant or petitioner, or parent or guardian certifies under penalty of perjury that 
the benefit request, and all evidence submitted with it, either at the time of filing or 
thereafter , is true and correct. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, an acceptable 
signature on [a] benefit request that is being filed with the USCIS is one that is either 
handwritten or, for benefit requests filed electronically as permitted by the instructions 
to the form, in electronic format. 
Part 4 of the Form I-290B (Applicant's or Petitioner 's Statement, Contact Information, Certification, and 
Signature) instructs the filer of an appeal based on a petition filed by an individual to "complete this 
section." This section, however, includes the attorney's telephone number and email address, and bears 
the attorney's signature in subsection 6.a which is designated for the Petitioner's signature . Thus, Part 4 
of the Form I-290B was not completed correctly and lacks the requisite signature of the Petitioner. The 
lack of a proper signature at subsection 6.a invalidates the contents of the "Petitioner's Certification" that 
appears above the signature, in particular the closing sentence which reads, in pertinent part: "I certify, 
under penalty of perjury, that all of the information in my form and any document submitted with it were 
provided or authorized by me, that I reviewed all of the information in, and submitted with, my form, and 
that all of this information is complete, true and correct." In fact, there is no evidence that the Petitioner 
reviewed the Form I-290B, and he did not certify that the information therein is complete, true and correct. 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not complete Part 4 in accordance with the instructions on the Form I-290B.1 
We observe that the record contains a statement submitted with the Form 1-140 entitled "To Whom it 
May Concern," signed by both the Petitioner and.__ _________ _. which states as follows: 
I, [Petitioner ], resident o~ I Nepal, in my full and conscious capacity, hereby 
authorize ! I A resident of California, USA to sign on my 
behalf, in all the fonns and applications, which are necessary to complete my petition 
for employment related Immigrant Visa to the USCIS. 
I declare that her signing of the necessary documents is fully consented and I will not 
deny or claim against any of her discretionary signature, throughout the process of my 
application . 
I have voluntarily signed and sent this letter tq I via email. 
Her signature is included below in this letter and the letter will be in full force once she 
signs below. 
While we acknowledge that the Petitioner purportedly delegated his attorney to act on his behalf, this 
document does not satisfy USCIS signature requirements. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, 
a benefit requestor must personally sign his or her own request before filing it with USCIS. 2 
1 The Fonn G-28 accompanying the appeal was also not properly executed as it does not bear the Petitioner 's signature . 
According the 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a), an appearance must be filed on the appropriate form as prescribed by DHS by the 
attorney or accredited representative appearing in each case. The form must be properly completed and signed by the 
petitioner, applicant, or respondent to authorize representation in order for the appearance to be recognized by DHS. 
(Emphasis added). 
2 See 1 USCIS Policy ManualB.2, https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual/volume-l-part-b-chapter-2 ; see also 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(2). 
2 
Finally, we note that the underlying Fonn 1-140 petition was also executed byl ______ _ I I and not the Petitioner. 3 Although the Director reviewed the petition based on its merits, the 
petition was improperly filed as it was not properly signed, and thus should have been rejected by the 
Director at the time of filing. 4 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(iii)(B) and (a)(2)(i), only an affected party may appeal an unfavorable 
decision. Here, the appeal was filed by I ! who is not the "affected party" in 
this proceeding. We will therefore reject the appeal as improperly filed. 
ORDER: The appeal is rejected. 
3 Box 8.a of the Fonn 1-140 petition, designated for the Petitioner 's certification under penalty of perjury, is signed by ________ __.not the Petitioner. 
4 Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A) , a petition which is not properly signed shall be rejected as improperly filed, 
and no receipt date assigned to the petition. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 03, 2024 In Re: 33947609 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a producer and promoter of musical events, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the classification's initial evidentiary requirements . The matter is 
now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In her initial filing, the Petitioner claimed to meet six of the ten evidentiary criteria: receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally known awards, participating as a judge of the work of others, making 
original contributions of major significance in her field, authorship of scholarly articles, display of her 
work in artistic exhibitions, and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations with 
distinguished reputations. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv)-(viii). The Director concluded that the 
evidence provided only satisfied the judging criterion and denied the petition accordingly. 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a personal statement and documentation regarding the criteria for 
lesser nationally or internationally known awards, majorly significant original contributions, and 
display of her work at artistic exhibitions. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and (vii), respectively. Since 
the appeal does not challenge the Director's findings regarding 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship 
of scholarly articles, or 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), performing in a leading or critical role, we 
consider these issues to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
(citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). We will consider the Petitioner's 
remaining claims below. 
A. Receipt of Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized A wards or Prizes for Excellence in the 
Field of Endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that she has received two nationally or internationally recognized 
awards: a certificate of recognition from the mayor ofl l Texas, and a I I award. 
Upon review, we conclude that she has not established eligibility for this criterion. 
To assess whether an award is nationally or internationally recognized as reflecting excellence in a 
person's field, we consider factors including the criteria used to grant the award, the number of 
awardees, any limitations on who may compete, and other evidence of the award's significance in the 
field of endeavor. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
Here, we first note that the certificate from the mayor ofl Idoes not appear to be an award for 
excellence in the Petitioner's field of concert production and promotion. The provided certificate 
states that the Petitioner has "added to the diverse array of music that makes I I unique" and 
2 
thanks her "for her work in enhancing the diversity of I I through Latin American music 
initiatives." The record therefore indicates that the award is granted for contributions to the 
community in I I rather than for excellence in the field of concert production. 
Secondly, the record does not contain documentation showing to what extent, if any, a certificate of 
appreciation from the mayor ofl Iis recognized outside ofl I The Petitioner contends 
on appeal that "while a mayor's award recognition is typically regional," in her case, "the award 
represents a recognition of a person who makes a significant contribution to an entire community," 
and that "the Hispanic culture represents the second largest in the United States." However, the plain 
language of the regulation requires the award in question to be nationally recognized, and the award 
certificate only mentions the Petitioner's contributions within the city ofl I 
Similarly, while the Petitioner points out that the mayor ofl lhas granted similar recognition to 
internationally famous recipients such asl there is no evidence in the record showing 
that I Imayoral certificates of appreciation have a national or international level of fame. An 
award' s recognition level is not measured by the preexisting recognition level of its awardees, but by 
whether it is nationally or internationally acknowledged as reflecting excellence in a person's field of 
endeavor. The Petitioner has provided no documentation showing that a certificate of appreciation 
from the mayor ofl Iis acknowledged beyond the awarding entity. 
Finally, petitioners must establish eligibility for the requested classification at the time their benefit 
request is filed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). In this instance, the underlying visa petition was filed in 
December 2023. The certificate awarding the I I to the Petitioner states that it was granted 
in March 2024. As such, it cannot establish the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. 
The Petitioner has not provided evidence showing her receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in her field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
B. Display of the Petitioner's Work in the Field at Artistic Exhibitions or Showcases. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner resubmits promotional posters and venue licensing agreements regarding 
various concerts she produced and contends that each of these events was a display of her work in an 
artistic showcase. However, the record does not indicate that any ofthe concerts in question constituted 
an exhibition or showcase of the Petitioner's work. 
The Merriam-Webster Dictionary defines a showcase as an occasion, setting, or medium for exhibiting 
something, and an exhibition as a public showing (as ofworks of art, objects ofmanufacture, or athletic 
skill) 1. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) specifically requires any qualifying exhibition 
or showcase to be artistic in nature -that is, a public showing of art. It also requires the work on 
display to be the person's own work product in their field. Id., see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). Here, while the Petitioner was involved in organizing concerts which qualify as 
artistic showcases, her work product was not the art that was on public display. There is no indication 
in the record that anything the Petitioner created as a work product, such as emails or contracts, was 
1 Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/. 
3 
seen, heard, or otherwise publicly exhibited at any of the concerts she organized: the work product 
being displayed was that ofthe performers, production designers, and other artistic staff. She therefore 
has not established eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The extraordinary ability classification requires petitioners to meet at least three of the initial 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner here only met one criterion in her 
underlying petition, and therefore cannot meet three criteria regardless of whether she qualifies under 
the major contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We therefore need not reach this issue 
and will reserve it. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not 
required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); 
see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). The petition will remain 
denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 3, 2024 InRe: 34831521 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a telematics systems engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a master's degree in engineering in Russia in 2012. From 2009 to 2022, the 
Petitioner worked as an engineer, testing and developing electronics systems for "the largest truck 
manufacturer in the Russian Federation." The Petitioner entered the United States in July 2022 as a 
B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. The Petitioner seeks employment as chief executive officer (CEO) of a 
company he founded that provides "tracking technology for the business-to-business (B2B) industry, 
fleet companies, and more." 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria, pertaining to judging, scholarly 
articles, and leading or critical roles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets all seven claimed 
criteria. 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, the Director conducted a final merits 
determination to evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation. The purpose of a final merits determination is to analyze a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine iftheir successes are 
1 After he filed the present petition, the Petitioner filed another immigrant petition on his own behalf, seeking the same 
classification, in September 2024. That petition, with receipt number! Iwas approved in October 2024. 
2 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 2 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that, although the Petitioner had satisfied three evidentiary 
criteria, the evidence that met those criteria as a whole did not establish sustained national or international 
acclaim. Specifically, the Director made the following determinations: 
• The Petitioner's activity as a judge of the work of others, satisfying 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
was "based on his service as a reviewer of a couple of articles and a contest in 2023." The 
Director concluded that these few, recent instances ofjudging did not show that the Petitioner 
is "one of that small percentage who have risen to the top of their field of endeavor and has 
sustained national or international acclaim in the field." 
• The Petitioner's publication of a "moderate" number of scholarly articles satisfies 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), but the Petitioner had not shown that his publication history establishes 
extraordinary ability in his field. 
• The Petitioner's position as "CEO of his company" is a leading or critical role for an 
organization with a distinguished reputation, but the Petitioner did not show that this role 
places him at "the very top of the field of endeavor and [demonstrates] sustained national or 
international acclaim." 
Although the Director did not discuss evidence beyond the three granted criteria, the Director 
concluded by stating that "USCIS has ... examined the entire record." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that, in the final merits determination, the Director "only analyzed 
evidence concerning the three granted criteria" instead of considering "the entire record." 
Upon consideration ofthe complete record, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner 
has not established sustained national or international acclaim as required. Below, we discuss additional 
evidence beyond the three granted criteria. 
The Russian Union of Scientific and Engineering Public Associations Coordination Board conducted an 
"Engineer of the Year" competition in 2020. In the first round of the competition, the Petitioner was 
awarded the title I I The certificate conveying that title indicates that it 
is "valid for 5 years." The presence ofan expiration date appears to be more consistent with a professional 
credential or title rather than an award. 
The number of awardees or prize recipients is a relevant consideration. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Materials in the record indicate that the 
Petitioner was one of 51 mechanical engineers, and 339 engineers overall, to earn the title I II in 2020. In all, out of a pool of over 70,000 participants, 1,381 engineers received 
some type of accolades from the competition. 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
The Petitioner submitted copies ofmaterials from the awarding entity, and congratulatory messages from 
the Petitioner's employer after nine of its employees received various forms of recognition. But the 
Petitioner did not establish that he, as an individual, received recognition and attention indicative of 
sustained national or international acclaim when he and hundreds of others received the I I 
1 1 title. 
The Petitioner also asserted that $150,000 in venture capital for his U.S. company is a prize or award for 
excellence. We will take capital funding into account when considering an organization's reputation and 
an individual's remuneration. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). The Petitioner 
did not establish that the infusion of venture capital is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award for excellence in the field of endeavor. A contract in the record indicates that the capital funding 
amounted to a purchase of equity in the Petitioner's company, subject to return, rather than a prize that 
would remain with the Petitioner. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that his company's infusion of venture capital received 
national or international recognition, a necessary component of a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award. The Petitioner's assertion that "venture capital funding more broadly [is] widely 
recognized" does not establish this particular instance of funding has the necessary recognition. The 
overall familiarity of the concept of venture capital does not suffice. 
Also, the Petitioner did not establish that the $150,000 in venture capital he secured reflected sustained 
national or international acclaim, rather than the individual investor's confidence in the potential 
profitability ofthe Petitioner's new company. We can consider whether the funds are commensurate with 
funding rounds generally achieved for a startup's stage and industry. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(l ). The Petitioner submitted excerpts from a 2016 report about venture capital, 
but did not include any statistics, such as the average size ofa round ofventure capital funding, that might 
have lent context to the amount of funding that the Petitioner's company secured. Therefore, the 
Petitioner did not show that securing $150,000 in venture capital funding indicates extraordinary ability 
in business. 
The Petitioner was the subject of five articles that appeared in various online Russian-language media in 
2022 and 2023. There are broad similarities between many of the articles, such as an emphasis on 
information that coincides with some of the regulatory criteria for extraordinary ability. All the articles 
were published after the Petitioner left Russia for the last time in January 2022; most were published in 
late 2023. The record does not show that the Petitioner attracted any Russian media coverage while he 
was in Russia. 
One assertion that appears in a number ofthe submitted articles is that the Petitioner's membership in the 
Union of Machine Engineers constitutes "recognition of professional achievements and contribution in 
the field," language similar to the wording of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). We agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner did not establish that his memberships in the National Chamber of 
Engineers and the Union of Machine Engineers require outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts, as the regulation requires. The Petitioner did not submit 
first-hand documentary evidence of membership requirements from the organizations themselves, and 
4 
I the Petitioner did not establish the reliability of the assertions in the online articles that the Petitioner 
submitted instead of that evidence. 
The Petitioner wrote five scholarly articles and published conference presentations in conjunction with 
his graduate studies. He wrote a sixth article that appeared in Actual Researches in 2023. In a final merits 
determination, USCIS may consider whether an individual's articles appeared in highly ranked journals 
and whether the articles have been heavily cited by others. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(2). The Petitioner did not establish the impact ofhis published work in these ways. The articles 
themselves are not evidence of sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner peer-reviewed manuscripts submitted for publication in Actual Researches. We agree with 
the Director that this activity constitutes judging the work of others, satisfying the requirements of 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but does not inherently establish sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show how the journal selects peer reviewers. 
The Petitioner was also invited to serve "as an honored member ofthe jury ofthe competition 
Ibased in part on "[r ]eputation and achievements in the industry that confirm professional 
competence." The Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish the significance of the competition. 
The competition's own promotional materials do not suffice in this regard. Cf Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 
06 5105 SJO (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that a magazine 
publisher's self-serving assertions are not reliable evidence of the magazine's status as major media). 
Also, thel Icompetition had not yet taken place when the Petitioner filed the petition in Febrnary 
2024. A petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(l). 
The Petitioner showed that his work improved models of vehicles produced by his employer in Russia, 
but the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this work went beyond the expected role of a mechanical 
engineer and had wider repercussions in the industry, resulting in recognition rising to the level of 
sustained national or international acclaim. Letters from collaborators and employers are not direct 
evidence of the wider recognition that the statute and regulations demand. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's critical role for organizations or establishments with 
distinguished reputations, but concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that these roles resulted in 
broader recognition commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. We agree with 
the Director that the Petitioner has not established a wider pattern of recognition. We also observe 
that the Petitioner's U.S. company appears to be in an early startup phase, and the Petitioner has not 
established that this new company has earned a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner submitted letters from several individuals discussing a platform that the Petitioner 
developed. These individuals have business relationships with the Petitioner, by employing him, 
collaborating with him, or investing in his company. These letters shed light on the nature of the 
Petitioner's accomplishments, but do not serve as first-hand evidence of acclaim and recognition 
beyond those who have worked with him. 
5 
Also, the letters contain descriptions of the Petitioner's contributions to particular projects, but do not 
show how the Petitioner's work has led to national or international acclaim in his field. For example, 
one ofthe Petitioner's collaborators asserted that the Petitioner helped to develop a telematics platform 
that "is pivotal for the transportation industry," but did not show that the system has been widely 
implemented and that the Petitioner's work on the platform has resulted in recognition beyond his 
employers and collaborators. 
Statements in such letters should be corroborated by documentary evidence in the record. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). Therefore, assertions regarding specific instances 
of impact on the field have little weight without corroborating evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 3, 2024 In Re: 34891742 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a youth soccer league, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, a soccer coach, as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not show 
the Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. Subsequently, the Director 
dismissed the Petitioner's motion to reconsider the decision. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a 
petitioner to submit comparable material if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established the Beneficiary's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined the Petitioner did not show the 
Beneficiary fulfilled any of the seven claimed categories of evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains the Beneficiary's qualification for five criteria. Issues and prior eligibility claims not raised 
on appeal are waived. See, e.g., Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing 
Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230, 234 
(D.C. Cir. 1997) ( declining to address a "passing reference" to an argument in a brief that did not 
provide legal support). For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the 
Beneficiary meets at least three categories of evidence. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The record reflects the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility based on another individual 
receiving an award. Specifically: 
[The Beneficiary's] coachin skill has been instrumental in individual player 
achievements, such as bein named the Male Player of the Season in 
the awards in 2019 in the same 
Awards. This recognition reflects [the Beneficiary's] 
commitment to nurturing talent and facilitating player development within the football 
community .... 
2 
In determining eligibility for this criterion, we look to the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), requiring "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt" of prizes or awards. In addition, 
we consider the term "alien's receipt" using its ordinary, common meaning. See, e.g., Perrin v. United 
States, 444 U.S. 37, 42 (1979) ("A fundamental canon of statutory construction is that, unless 
otherwise defined, words will be interpreted as taking their ordinary, contemporary, common meaning 
...."). Moreover, the description of this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus 
should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the 
awards or prizes. 1 Thus, prizes or awards not received by or bestowed upon the Beneficiary, such asI I award for Male Player of the Season, do not meet this regulatory criterion. 
Similarly, the Petitioner asserted the Beneficiary's "remarkable achievements have been further 
acknowledged by the I Ithrough I I receipt of the 
of the Year award in 2019." The provided article indicates the club received the award rather than the 
Beneficiary. In fact, the article makes no mention of the Beneficiary being a named awardee. Again, 
the description of this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the 
person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
Because the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary received any of these awards, we need not 
determine whether the awards qualify as nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence. 3 
The Petitioner also resented an article osted on southwales.ac.uk reporting on the 2018 
A wards. The article states that " a cross Year Two students 
it was ___ [ the Beneficiary] who claimed the Awards title." 
Although the article covers the overall! !Awards and indicates that "[l]aunched in 2014 
as a joint venture between I Iand the I I to provide a solid theoretical and practical 
foundation of professional coaching skills, as well as opportunities to acquire nationally recognized 
vocational qualifications, the degree course also serves to identify up and coming industry talent 
through its annual awards scheme," the article provides no further information relating to the 
Beneficiary's specific award -theI ward. Moreover, the Petitioner did not offer 
any other evidence establishing the national or international recognition for excellence of the award. 
Without additional information or documentation, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the recognition 
for excellence in the field on a national or international scale. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary's membership with the Football Association (FA) Coaches' 
Club meets this criterion. USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims 
membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by 
recognized experts in that field. 4 The petitioner must show that membership in the association requires 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts. 5 
The Petitioner provided evidence reflecting that an FA Licensed Coach meets the following 
requirements: holds a coaching qualification, has an FA enhanced criminal records check, commits 
to a minimum level of continuous professional development (CPD), retains in-date workshop and 
emergency certificates, joins the club, and has adequate coaching insurance. Furthermore, "[i]f you 
meet the requirements and are invited to join the scheme you will be granted your FA Coaching 
Licence." 
However, the Petitioner has not established how such requirements qualify as "outstanding 
achievements" rather than basic coaching certification. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show whether 
outstanding achievements are considered in order to be "invited to join the scheme" instead of 
completing minimum coaching conditions. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate whether 
recognized national or international experts judge an individual's membership with the association, as 
required by the regulation. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This criterion not only requires published material about the individual relating to work in the field 
but also requires the material to have been published in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. Here, the Petitioner provided around two dozen articles posted on various 
websites, such as napavalleyregister.com, npsl.com, patch.com, protagonistsoccer.com, 
liphookherald.com, haslemerherald.com, bordonherald.com, farnhamherald.com, dailyecho.co.uk, 
efltrust.com, and soccerbayarea.com. However, the Petitioner did not offer evidence or show the 
material was published or posted in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 6 
4 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
5 Id. 
6 See generally 6 USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(l) (in evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional 
publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended business audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade 
publications and other major media). 
4 
Simply submitting articles without establishing the professional or major trade or other major nature 
of the publications or media is insufficient to meet every element of this criterion. Therefore, we need 
not determine whether any of the articles qualify as published material about the Beneficiary relating 
to his work. 7 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not show the Beneficiary satisfies three categories of evidence, discussed above. 
Although the Petitioner also argues the Beneficiary's eligibility for the judging criterion under 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the display criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) through the submission of 
comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), we need not reach these grounds because the 
Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
We also need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 9 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the 
Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021), «ff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023)(determining that EB-1 visas 
7 See Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (1976); see also L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
8 See also generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
9 See Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26 (1976); see also L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
5 
are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and 
he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing the Beneficiary among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5463151 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 4, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physician specializing in pediatric intensive care, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a consultant, pediatric intensivist, and assistant professor at ~I ----~I University 
Hospital at.__ ____________ __,Saudi Arabia. 
The Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, relating to participation as a judge of the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and publication of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner 
claimed to satisfy two other criteria, discussed below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted photographs of various recognition plaques and copies of certificates. We agree 
with the Director's finding that the Petitioner had not established "the 'significance and scope' of the 
prizes." 
Many of the plaques are internal faculty awards from D recognizing various activities the Petitioner 
performed there such as updating guidelines, "supervising curriculum changes," and unspecified "active 
contribution to the success of academic accreditation activities." The inscriptions on other plaques 
indicate that the Petitioner received them for participating in various medical conferences. The Petitioner 
did not show that these plaques are nationally or internationally recognized awards, or that he received 
them for excellence in the field of endeavor rather than for participation in specific projects or tasks. 
After the filing date, the Petitioner has continued to receive similar awards fromO but the record does 
not show that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized, or that anyone who is not working 
at~is eligible to receive those awards. 
Rather than submit evidence that his awards are recognized outside of D, the Petitioner asserted that 
Owas one of the first accredited universities in Saudi Arabia, and that its "College of Medicine is 
among the leading national medical schools .... Therefore, the awards and recognitions awarded to [the 
Petitioner] byl !University are nationally significant." The conclusion does not follow from the 
premises. The Petitioner did not establish that the wider medical field, nationally or internationally, takes 
2 
notice of the prizes thatOawards to its own faculty members. The overall reputation of the awarding 
entity does not, by itself, confer national or international recognition on honors that the entity bestows on 
its employees. 
A "Certificate of Appreciation" from the Saudi Pediatric Association (SP A) recognized the Petitioner's 
"outstanding accomplishment by establishing and organizing the first SPA-endorsed National Childhood 
Safety Campaign" in 2017. The Petitioner did not establish that the certificate is nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
Another "Certificate of Appreciation" from the Saudi Patient Safety Center reads, in part: 
"Congratulations for being recognized as a nominee for 2018 National Patient Safety." A nomination is 
not a prize or award, and the Petitioner did not show that he won the award for which he was nominated. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he has received nationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in his field of endeavor. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner stated that he "has made ori inal scientific contributions to the field of Pediatric Intensive 
Care by contributing to research 
sets him apart from his peers." The Petitioner was one of 53 authors of' 
~--------_,," a 2015 paper that had been cited more than 160 times as of the filing date. 
Quoting part of the article's title, as above, does not sufficiently identify the Petitioner's contribution. 
This article, like most of the Petitioner's cited work, was a product of the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD), a series of collaborations described by the GBD secretariat as "an international network of more 
than 1,000 individuals, based in over 100 countries." The GBD collected data from institutions around 
the world, and published articles with dozens or hundreds of co-authors. 1 The Petitioner's participation 
1 At the time of filing in December 2018, the Petitioner documented 549 citations of 20 published articles. Most of those 
citations pertain to GBD articles. The majority of the citations ( 445 out of 549, or 81 % ) relate to three GBD articles with 50 or 
more co-authors. For the most-cited article, discussed above, the Petitioner was one of587 named co-authors. The Petitioner's 
published articles outside the GBD collaborations earned an aggregate total of60 citations at the time of filing. The Petitioner's 
two most-cited non-GBD articles accumulated 28 and 13 citations, respectively; seven others had between 1 and 5 citations 
each. On appeal, the Petitioner notes that citations have increased since the time of filing, but the updated figures still skew 
heavily toward GBD articles. 
3 
in a massive global collaboration is not, itself, an original contribution of major significance, and he did 
not identify his specific contributions to the highly-cited GBD articles. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner showed that he has a ResearchGate score of 31.94, 
which "is higher than 90% of ResearchGate members." On appeal, the Petitioner showed a 'Total 
Research Interest score" of 1710, which is "[h]igher than 98% of researchers in Emergency Medical 
Care." The Petitioner did not submit evidence or information to put this score into context. For instance, 
the Petitioner did not show how the scores were calculated, or establish that ResearchGate members are 
a representative cross-section of the field. We note that it is not evident from the record that the 
Petitioner's specialty is "Emergency Medical Care." More significantly, the scores do not identify any 
original contribution by the Petitioner. Without the necessary context, the ResearchGate information has 
minimal weight in this proceeding. 
The Petitioner stated that he: 
is the first to establish a national registry of DNA with a lab for multicenter genetic 
research for children withl I ... [The Petitioner's] development of this 
DNA registry is the only genetic registry for this disease in the region . . . . [The 
Petitioner's] contribution ... significantly impacted public health in the region and 
globally. 
(Emphasis added.) The phrase "in the region" implies that other such registries already existed elsewhere. 
The Petitioner did not explain how establishing a registry in a different location is an original contribution, 
or submit evidence to show that it has already "significantly impacted public health ... globally." 
The Petitioner also stated that he "is an expert in medical informatics applications and the customization 
of the electronic health records (EHR)." The Petitioner continued: 
[The Petitioner] obtained a certificate on the Essentials of Health Informatics ... from I !University and.._ _______ __. University. [The Petitioner] was 
selected by the Pediatric Department to lead the EHR Taskforce ... which played a major 
role in the successful implementation of the new EHR system. This has resulted in his 
health care facility becoming the first hospital in Saudi Arabia to adopt these ethnicity­
specific normal measurements, resulting in improved patient care. 
The Petitioner did not explain how implementing an EHR system constitutes an original contribution, 
rather than applying existing methods in a new location. The above quotation indicates that the Petitioner 
acquired the necessary skills at the same university where he implemented the system. 
Letters from colleagues and collaborators likewise attest to the Petitioner's introduction of existing 
methods to Saudi Arabia, and to his diligent efforts in improving education and care at the institutions 
where he has worked while also conducting useful research. These efforts may well have improved local 
health care and added to the general pool of knowledge in the Petitioner's specialty, but the Petitioner and 
his colleagues do not explain how they constitute original contributions or have major significance with 
respect to the field as a whole. 
4 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not identify any specific original contributions that he 
showed to be of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance and recognition of his work at KSU are indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Therefore, the appeal will be dismissed. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF S-Z-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: DEC. 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek 
traditional embroidery . 1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had shown that he met four of the ten initial evidentiary criteria 
but that he did not establish eligibility in the final merits analysis. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he meets an additional criterion, and has 
sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of his field. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 In addition to the instant petition, the Petitioner has filed a second petition seeking classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. That second petition remains pending at the time of this 
decision. 
Matter of S-Z-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirement. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirement, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both 
individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be 
proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner has been a professional embroiderer in the field of Uzbek 
traditional embroidery since 2011. He seeks to continue his work in the field of Uzbek traditional 
embroidery in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and has sustained the required acclaim and has risen to the very top of 
his field. For the reasons discussed below, we find that he has not satisfied the initial evidentiary 
requirements. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner fulfilled four of the 
initial evidentiary criteria, membership under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We agree with the Director's determination regarding the display criterion. The 
Petitioner has offered diplomas from the Mayor of the City ofi I and the Head ofi I 
2 
Matter of S-Z-
Regional Department of the Uzbekistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, indicating that the 
Petitioner exhibited his embroidery at the municipal and regional level competitions of the I I 
(Initiative) -2012 Contest. However, for the reasons discussed later, we do not concur with the 
Director's finding as it relates to the membership, judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets an additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and we conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record does not support this finding. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion, based upon his membership in the I I 
Association of Artisans, Craftsmen and Folk Artists of the Republic of Uzbekistan. The record 
includes a membership certificate and two letters issued by the Head of the I !Department of 
the association,! I The letters state that the Petitioner has "foll association membership" 
in the association and that it "requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by 
nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective fields of folk art," in the Petitioner's 
case, "Uzbek traditional artisanal embroidery." The Petitioner also submitted a letter from D 
I lof the association, stating that it "is open only to highly skilled masters who are 
among the few on top of their fields and requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk art." The letter 
provides that the Petitioner's membership was recommended bvl I and□ I I The record farther contains resumes for I I 
The evidence in the record is insufficient to confirm that the Petitioner satisfies this criterion. While 
the letters froml I andl I contain language that mirrors the regulation, neither 
those authors nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that supports the claim 
that the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts. Specifically, the record lacks the entity's constitution, bylaws, or 
other official documents, detailing its membership selection process and criteria. Without additional 
evidence that accurately and credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection 
process, conclusory statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
See 1756, Inc. v. United States Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements). 
Moreover, although the record includes resumes for I I and I I the 
individuals who I I asserts recommended the Petitioner for membership in the I I 
Association, the documentation is insufficient to show that they qualify as national or international 
experts in the field. I Is resume indicates he was the head of two art museums and was a 
professor of museology and art history inl I and that his "scholarly articles and brochures" 
include two works on traditional embroidery. I l's resume indicates she teaches tour 
guides inl I and is a member of the organizing committee of the I !Festival. Those 
3 
Matter of S-Z-
uncorroborated resume documents are insufficient to confirm the individuals are qualifying experts in 
the field. Similarly, although I I claims that I I and I I are 
nationally recognized experts, he has not explained the basis of his knowledge or offered sufficient 
evidence in support of his statement. Finally, even if the submitted evidence did demonstrate the 
expertise and recognition o~ I and I I a comparison alone to the other 
members of the association is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual members of the 
association may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate that membership inl I 
requires outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Based on the above reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. The record does not suoport this finrngj 
The record includes a letter issued by the Head of thel I Department of [ I ~-~I, that "thanks the member of the association -[ the Petitioner] -for participating" in the 
association's 2011 'I I' exhibition fair. It notes that the Petitioner "has participated in 
national and international exhibitions many times with his artistic products." However, the letter from I I does not assert or establish that the Petitioner participated as "a judge" of the work of 
others in the field. 
The Petitionr also submittr an undated letter issued by the Head of thel lnepanment of I I ~----~ thanking the Petitioner for "his help in determining craftsmen, artisans 
and painters, who were invited" to the 2014 "Art in Uzbekistan" exhibition. That letter does not 
establish in what manner providing help in determining what artists were invited to the exhibition 
equates to participating as "a judge" of the work of others in the field. The plain language of the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires evidence demonstrating that the petitioner has 
participated as "a judge of the work of others." The phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in 
a judging capacity, either on a panel or individually as specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). There 
is no evidence demonstrating that in the performance of that role the Petitioner actually judged the artwork 
and made final selections for the exhibition, rather than, for example, merely assisting with general 
administrative functions of the exhibition. 
Moreover, there is no documentary evidence showing the specific exhibitions judged by the Petitioner, 
the dates of his participation, and the names of the artists whose work he specifically selected. Merely 
submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner judged the work of others without evidence 
showing who he judged and their field of specialization is insufficient to establish eligibility for this 
criterion. Rather than submitting contemporaneous documentary evidence of the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge for the 2014 "Art in Uzbekistan" exhibition sponsored byl l the 
Petitioner instead submitted a brief: undated statement from I !attesting to the Petitioner's 
involvement. There is no documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific assessments and 
the names of the artists whose work he evaluated. 
4 
Matter of S-Z-
Moreover, if testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the 
petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). In this 
instance, the record does not include primary evidence demonstrating the Petitioner's participation as 
a judge for that contest. A petition must be filed with any initial evidence required by the regulation. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). The nonexistence or other unavailability of required evidence creates a 
presumption of ineligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(2)(i). When relying on secondary evidence, the 
petitioner must provide documentary evidence that the primary evidence is either unavailable or does 
not exist. Id. When relying on an affidavit, the petitioner must demonstrate that both primary and 
secondary evidence are unavailable. Id. In this instance, the petitioner has not demonstrated that 
primary evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge does not exist or cannot be obtained. 
Accordingly, the undated statement froml I does not comply with the preceding regulatory 
requirements. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that reference letters offered in support of this criterion establish that 
"[the Petitioner's] art has substantially influenced his field of endeavor." 
Letters froml I a K-12 art teacher, an~ l a fine artist and gallery 
coordinator, state that they are familiar with the Petitioner's work as an "accomplished traditional 
Uzbek embroiderer" and provide that he has "made [a] contribution of major significance to this field 
by virtue of his mastery of Uzbek traditional embroidery techniques and by adaptation of these 
techniques to contemporary materials and tastes." In addition, they claim that the Petitioner's "use of 
the thick needle technique as well as his ability to combine various traditional styles in a single piece 
constitute a contribution of major significance in the field of traditional Uzbek embroidery." 
A letter from I I a K-12 art teacher, provides that the Petitioner's contributions "to the art 
of embroidery, decorative art, and cultural traditions of Uzbekistan are of major importance as they 
have and will continue to influence the work of other artists" and that "[m]any of his unique creations 
have been displayed and sold at major exhibitions in Uzbekistan and Central Asia." 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field of Uzbek traditional embroidery. Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have 
been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. While the 
reference letters discuss his work, noting in general that it is well-regarded and appreciated, they do 
not explain how, specifically, his work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, consistent 
with a finding of"contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's techniques have been widely used by others in the field. The documents in the 
record, including those not specifically mentioned, primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's 
5 
Matter of S-Z-
status in the field without providing specific examples of how his contributions rise to a level 
consistent with major significance. Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how 
an individual's contributions have already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy 
this criterion. Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
Moreover, we need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he meets the requirements of this criterion based upon evidence 
submitted of "articles and a book published by the Petitioner in major and/or professional media." The 
record includes copies of several pages of the book, that list the Petitioner as "developer." 
According to two letters from I I, the head of the publisher of the book, the 
Petitioner is also the author of the book and the book "was published in 350 copies and distributed 
among regional libraries." The record also includes evidence that the Petitioner has authored three 
articles that were published, respectively, in the newspaper Buxoroyi Sharif, and the magazine 
Education and Upbringing, and presented at the the 2014 Scientific-Practical International 
Conference of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Uzbekistan. 
While the Petitioner might have authored written work, he has not shown that his pieces qualify as 
"scholarly articles," as required under the criterion. In general, scholarly articles report on original 
research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse, and often have footnotes, endnotes, or a 
bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts 
expressed in the article. 2 Usually, scholarly articles are written for learned persons in that field. In 
this case, the Petitioner has not demonstrated thatl land the articles (which are each between 
one and three pages in length), without footnotes, endnotes, or bibliographies, qualify as scholarly. 
Moreover, the Petitioner has not established that his work has been published in qualifying 
publications. For example, he has offered a letter from the chief editor ofBuxoroyi Sharif stating that 
"[t]he circulation of Buhoroi Sharif is 500 printed copies." He also provided a letter from the chief 
editor of Education and Upbringing, indicating that the publication "has the circulation of 4,000 
copies." Finally, he submitted a letter from the head of the Academy of Sciences, stating that the 
annual Scientific-Practical International Conference "provides more than 100 scientific articles in 
different areas. All articles of the conference were published in one collection, with a circulation of 
1,000 printed copies." The Petitioner has not demonstrated that based on the circulation data, these 
publications qualify as major media. In addition, he has not presented adequate documentation 
confirming they constitute either professional or major trade publications. Based on the above reasons, 
the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i- l 40-evidence-pm-6002-005- l .pdf. 
6 
Matter of S-Z-
B. Summary 
For the reasons discussed above, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner is not eligible because he 
has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that 
meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a result, we need not 
fully address the totality of the materials in a final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, and conclude that it 
does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the level of expertise required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In 
visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (AAO 2012). Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofS-Z-, ID# 4316395 (AAO Dec. 4, 2019) 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1929753 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 4, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a marketing and advertising manager, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three of the ten criteria and is eligible for the 
benefit sought. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records indicate that the Petitioner filed a new 
Form I-140 prior to filing this appeal, in which he also requested classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The Director of the Texas Service Center approved that petition on November 
30, 2018. As the Petitioner has an approved Fonn I-140 in the requested classification, further pursuit 
of this matter is moot. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1852444 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 5, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a filmmaker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, he did not establish sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least six of the ten evidentiary criteria and is qualified 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a film director and screenwriter whose credits include theatrical feature films and 
documentary projects released in his native country of Turkey. The record reflects that he has also 
worked as a lecturer and writer on the topics of screenwriting and filmmaking. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met the following criteria: 
awards, judging, and display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases at 8,c..E..R., 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iv), and (vii), resrctivf1y. The record reflects that the Petitioner's film,L___J I I won two Grand Jury Awards at the WorldFestl I Film Festival, and that it 
was screened at several additional festivals. Accordingly, we agree that the submitted evidence 
establishes that the Petitioner meets the awards and display criteria. In addition, the Petitioner 
provided evidence that he judged the work of others in his field as a member of juries for the I I 
International Film Festival as well as other short film and screenwriting competitions. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has established that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, and we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As detailed above, the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence and established that he 
meets at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We will 
therefore evaluate whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of individuals at the very 
top of his field. In a final merits determination, we analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine whether it is sufficient to demonstrate that he has 
extraordinary ability. 
As a preliminary matter, however, we note that counsel appears to object to the Director's final merits 
analysis, stating that the Petitioner was held to "a super standard." Specifically, counsel cites to Muni 
v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440,445 (N.D. Ill., May 23, 1995), arguing that "a petitioner is expected to show 
international recognition as outstanding by producing evidence from at least 3 of the 10 criteria in the 
Regulations. It is not necessary to show that each criterion was met as a result of extraordinary ability." 
Counsel further argues "[i]t is the reverse that is true -by satisfying at least three criteria through 
meeting the plain language of the regulations, an alien is deemed to have international recognition." 
Notwithstanding counsel's assertions, Muni specifically states that "the satisfaction of the three­
category production requirement does not mandate a finding that the petitioner has sustained national 
or international acclaim and recognition in his field." Id. at 445-46. 
As discussed above, USCIS performs a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and 
then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits 
determination. See Kazarian 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to 
the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 (Dec. 22, 2010). Here, 
the Director's decision reflects that he evaluated the evidence to determine if it met the plain language 
of the evidentiary criteria as the first part of a two-step analysis. After determining that the Petitioner 
had met three criteria, the Director considered the quantity and quality of evidence in order to 
determine whether the evidence was consistent with a finding that the Petitioner demonstrated that he 
has sustained national or international acclaim. We do note, however, that in conducting the final 
merits determination, the Director did not consider the totality of the evidence, but rather limited his 
final merits discussion to evidence submitted to meet the awards, judging, and display criteria. We 
will consider the totality of the evidence in our discussion below. 
The Petitioner is a film director and screenwriter who has also worked as an assistant director, camera 
operator, film magazine editor, and lecturer. The record as a whole reflects that he has become a 
respected figure in the Turkish film and television industry, but does not demonstrate that his 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Based on the submitted evidence, the Petitioner is best known for his first feature film,I J 6 I I, which he completed in 2007. The Petitioner received two received Special 
Jury~Awards, in the "First Feature" and "Theatrical Feature" categories, at the 2009 Worldfest 
I !International Film Festival for this film. Fu~e record reflects that the Petitioner's 
participation in W orldfestl ~md his receipt of the l____J\ wards were covered by Turkish media 
3 
outlets, including the Turkish CNN website (CNN Turk). On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that 
W orldfest "is the oldest independent film and video festival in the world and the third most competitive 
international film festival in North America."1 Worldfest's publicity materials reflect that many 
internationally recognized film directors received their first awards at the festival very early in their 
careers.2 This fact does not establish, however, that winning al IAward results in sustained 
national or international acclaim for the award recipient. The other I !Award-winning film 
directors referenced by the Petitioner have many film credits and became internationally recognized 
in the field based on other projects that came later in their careers. The Petitioner received his awards 
for .__ _______ _.in 2009, but has not directed another feature film or demonstrated that he 
received any additional nominations or awards for his film and television projects in subsequent years, 
which would tend to support a finding that he has achieved sustained national or international acclaim 
in the field. 
The record also reflects that I I was screened at the I IFilm Festival, t~ 
I [urkish Film Festival, thel I Film FestivalJ ITurkish Film Days, and thec=J I ~ Middle East Film Festival. As it is expected that film directors would exhibit 
their artistic work in front of audiences, we will evaluate the extent to which the display of the 
Petitioner's work is reflective of acclaim consistent with this classification. While this evidence 
demonstrates that the film received additional recognition in the independent film field, the record 
contains little information regarding these festivals. Further, the Petitioner has not established that the 
selection of his film for these festivals resulted in significant media attention or otherwise resulted in 
national or international recognition. For example, the record reflects that the Tallahassee Democrat 
published a 2008 article titled 'c=l Rolls Cinema-Powered tri throu h Middle East," which 
mentioned the Beneficiary's visit to~ to discuss and present at its Middle 
East Film Festival. In addition, the Petitioner provided a 2008 Austin Chronicle article 
titled 1 IFilm Festival Announces Full Lineup," which listsl I among the 
films being screen at the festival that year. The Petitioner did not provide evidence that he received 
any major media coverage for his festival appearances in the United States or elsewhere or provide 
other evidence that his U.S. film festival screenings reflect the level of national or international acclaim 
required for this classification. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received considerable print media coverage in Turkey 
surrounding the release of~------~ The Director determined that the evidence submitted 
under the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), did not meet all elements of the 
evidentiary criterion either due to incomplete translations, incomplete information regarding the 
author, title, and date of the material, and/or a lack of evidence that the articles appeared in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. On appeal, counsel reiterates that the Petitioner 
provided published materials "from major newspapers and magazines" but we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner did not provide independent evidence showing that the submitted newspaper and 
1 W orldfest' s own publicity materials indicate that, when founded in 1961, it "became the third competitive international 
film festival in North America." This evidence does not support various statements in the record which refer to Worldfest 
as "the third most competitive" film festival in North America. 
2 Specifically, Worldfest's website provides a lengthy list of directors "discovered" at the festival that includes Steven 
Spielberg, George Lucas, David Lynch. Oliver Stone, the Coen Brothers, Ang Lee, among others and states that there are 
"hundreds more." 
4 
magazine articles appeared in major Turkish publications with high circulation statistics. 3 Therefore, 
while the Petitioner provided evidence that articles about him and~-------~ appeared in 
Turkish publications such as Aksiyon, Haftalik, Sinematurk, Sultanahmet Gazetesi, Turkish Daily 
News, and what appears to be the Turkish version of Star magazine, we cannot determine whether this 
evidence supports the Petitioner's claim that he received major, national media attention for his work. 
The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot showing that he was interviewed on Fox Channel Turkey 
and NTV in connection with I [ but he did not provide the dates of broadcast, 
transcripts of his interviews, or evidence that these were national broadcasts. The record also contains 
evidence that, in addition to the film's screenings in various festivals, it received a broader theatrical 
release in Turkey. However, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective evidence to establish 
that the film was a commercial success based on its box office receipts or video sales. Therefore, 
while the evidence shows that .__ _______ ____.enjoyed critical acclaim at Worldfest, was 
screened at several other festivals, and received media attention, it does not demonstrate that this 
acclaim was accompanied by commercial success despite its broader release. More importantly, as 
will be discussed below, the Petitioner has not established that his subsequent projects have garnered 
the same level of acclaim or elevated him to the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner also provided evidence that he received media coverage related td.__ ______ ~ 
a six-part documentary series that aired on the Turkish television channel TRT in 2014. Although 
counsel describes TRT as "the second most watched channel in Turkey," this claim that is not 
adequately supported by independent evidence. 4 The Petitioner provided several print articles 
regarding the premiere ofl I and evidence that part of the series was screened at a 
premiere event atl I University. Additionally, he provided: screenshots from the 
NTV television program Hafta Sonu which appears to depict an interview with the Petitioner and 
coverage of ......,_ _______ __. premiere; screenshots from TR T Turk which were captioned 
a brief article about the 
premiere that appeared on the TR T A vaz website; and screenshots that appear to show the Petitioner 
being interviewed in-studio about I I for the channel TRT Haber. As with other 
evidence submitted under the published materials criterion, the Petitioner did not provide transcripts 
of television interviews and appearances or evidence that the submitted print articles were published 
in major media. While,...__ _______ ~appears to have been a nationally televised series whose 
premiere was covered by Turkish media outlets, the record does not contain evidence that it was 
nominated for or received any awards or evidence that it drew a large number of viewers or critical 
acclaim. 
The record contains comparatively l~rce regrding the Petitioner's o~her film projects which 
include the documentaries I IL__J I I and! I I I In addition, some of the submitted testimonial letters, discussed further below, 
reference the Petitioner's earlier work for the television series.__ _________ __. andl I 
.__ __ _,I on which he worked as an assistant director. However, the record lacks sufficient independent 
evidence of the recognition he received for these projects. With respect to the documentaries, it is 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that "evidence of published material in professional 
or major trade publications or in other major media publications about the alien should establish that the circulation ( on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the publication is). 
4 Based on the information from TR T's website, there appear to be 14 different TRT channels, some of which are regional, 
rather than national or international. It is unclear which TRT channel(s) aired the Petitioner's documentary series. 
5 
unclear when, where or in what capacity these projects were released and how they were received by 
audiences and critics, as many of them were documented in the record solely through submission of 
captioned screenshots. The record reflects that an article about the Petitioner and his filml I 
appeared in the Turkish publication Aksiyon in 2006, but he did not provide evidence that this 
publication is considered major media in Turkey or otherwise provide sufficient evidence to establish 
that this film received national or international attention. 
Overall, during his 20-year career in his field, the Petitioner has established that he directed one award­
winning film that garnered him national attention in Turkey when it was first released and when 
screened at international festivals in 2008 and 2009. His next noted project! I 
was released in 2014, and also garnered some media coverage in Turkey. While both projects are 
noteworthy accomplishments for the Petitioner as a film director, the evidence does not establish that 
they are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work" or that receiving the documented level of 
recognition for two projects during a 20 year career demonstrates a level of success consistent with 
being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C .F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner emphasizes that he does not work solely as a film maker, but is also a writer and lecturer 
on the subjects of film making and screenwriting. Many of the submitted articles written by him 
about screenwriting and filmmaking appear to have been published on the hiss own website, but the 
record does not contain evidence showing that his website is widely viewed or read. The Petitioner 
also provided evidence that he contributed to a book titled J I about Turkish 
director I l but he submitted only a brief excerpt from his chapter. An article about the book 
indicates that it consists of interviews withl 6nd his family and friends. However, it is unclear 
whether being selected for an interview about his friend and former colleague is indicative of his 
national acclaim for his work in the field. 
The record further reflects that the Petitioner authored articles or reviews in the Turkish publications 
Anlysis, Bilem ve Gelecek, Cafe-Sanat, Hayed Perdesi, and Film Arasi, a film magazine that he co­
foundedAs acknowledged by counsel, any published articles must be evaluated so that we can 
determine whether they are indicative of the Petitioner being one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of his field and enjoying sustained national acclaim. Here, the Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient information regarding these publications, such as their circulation statistics and 
targeted audiences, to support such a finding. On appeal, counsel maintains that the submitted articles 
are "extraordinary" but does not offer further explanation. While the evidence supports the 
Petitioner's expertise in the filmmaking and screenwriting field, we cannot determine that his 
publications support a finding that he enjoys sustained national or international acclaim that places 
him at the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence related to his work as a lecturer and asserts that it supports a 
finding that he has made original scholarly or artistic contributions in his field, consistent with the 
evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner listed and provided evidence of 18 
lectures, seminars and classes in which he served as an instructor between 2009 and 2016 on topics 
such as the Turkish filmmaking business, screenwriting, and film analysis. However, similar to the 
submitted evidence of his published articles, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information 
regarding his activities as a lecturer to establish that this evidence is indicative of his stature at the top 
6 
of his field or his sustained national acclaim. While the Petitioner provided copies of newspaper 
articles that announced workshops and seminars in which he participated as a lecturer, the record does 
not contain information regarding the publications in which they appeared or otherwise support a 
finding that he received national attention based on his experience as an instructor in the field. Further, 
the fact that he has published articles and delivered seminars and lectures does not lead to a conclusion 
that he made original contributions of major significance in the field based on these activities. 
The Petitioner has also submitted testimonial letters that summarize and discuss the Petitioner's 
contributions in the field as an author, lecturer, and film maker. With regard to his published 
materials, he provided a letter from I I of D Films, who stated that he relied on the 
Petitioner's "online posts about World Cinema" to use in his own teaching activities. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided a letter from Turkish actorl I who states that he has attended some 
of the Petitioner's seminars and lectures inl l He describes the Petitioner's topics as "unique, 
insightful and inspiring" and notes that the Petitioner "has not only changed my interpretation of the 
screenplay characters but also my acting performance and the way I give life to characters that I am 
portraying." While these letters suggest that the Petitioner's essays and lectures have directly impacted I I and I I in their approaches to teaching and acting, their statements are not 
indicative of original contributions in the field with a wider impact consistent with "major 
significance," nor do their statements support a finding that the Petitioner has received national or 
international acclaim as a result of his writing and lecturing activities. 
The Petitioner also provided letters that discuss his contributions as a filmmaker.I I a 
filmmaker from New Zealand, discussd lnoting that the Petitioner used a "novel 
initiative" to write the film's screenplay. Specifically, she states that [i]t was novel in the sense that 
it was one of first examples of online story development collaborating with its public audience on the 
internet" and was "way before the time of kickstarter or any other collaborative fundraising or 
collaborative creative platforms."! I also describd~------~b as "one of the first 
Turkish films in the mystery/thriller genre" and states her belief that it is "still a good subject of film 
studies itself" Finally she commented on ~-------~noting that the series "sought the 
forgotten and unheard of voices of African people" and noted that the Petitioner's "effort to depict all 
colors of the planet and his contribution build [sic] a better society was outstanding." WhileD I I discusses original or novel aspects of the Petitioner's work, she has not established that either 
of his films was particularly influential in the Turkish or international film industry such that it had 
they had an impact of major significance5 in the overall field that contributed to his national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml l an executive editor with~I ---~ 
I I who discusses the Petitioner's early career, noting that he got his ~tart workipg 
on non-fiction shows as a member of1 ~ team, and later brought the project~l--.,.... ..... ~!to 
the TV channel's board of directors, noting that the show became "one of the most popular and most 
influential TV shows in 2000s," and influenced the major television networks for years as they tried 
to replicate the show. A letter froml lofl , J also mentions that 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met the original contributions criterion because she did not corroborate her impact 
in the field as a whole). 
7 
the Petitioner was the screenwriter and director of I I noting the popularity of the show and 
its "significant impact on its audience on a national scale in Turkey." However, as noted, the record 
contains little independent evidence of the Petitioner's work on I I or the attention he received 
for this work, to corroborate its claimed impact and influence on Turkish television. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I a writer and film critic, who describes the 
Petitioner's work as "extraordinary and exceptional" and states that he is "an outstanding artist" who 
has "many followers in Turkey in artistic sense." I !further notes that the Petitioner is "very 
well-known, extraordinary and one of the most impactful film directors." However, he does not offer 
specific examples of the Petitioner's impact on the field or discuss in any detail how he has influenced 
other artists. Finally, o, anneal t~e Petitioner eovides a new letter from I ~t University of1~_ ----~----____..who summarizes the evidence in the Petitioner's file 
and concludes that "he has earned a very distinguished level of recognition and admiration among his 
peers and other professionals." 
In evaluating the Petitioner's evidence, we take into account the probative analysis that experts may 
provide in opinion letters regarding the significance of an individual's contributions of major 
significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance in the field and its impact on subsequent work add value, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not. 6 While the referenced letters praise the Petitioner's 
talents, accomplishments, and broad experience, they are not sufficiently detailed to support a 
conclusion that he has made impactful or influential contributions to his field reflecting a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's experiences judging the work of others, an evaluation of this practice is 
acceptable under Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-11, to determine if such evidence is indicative of the 
extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. The record reflects that the 
Beneficiary was responsible for judging entries at various film festivals and screenwriting 
competitions in Turkey between 2013 and 2016, including the 4th and 5th llrnternationµl.Eilm, 
Festival, thel !Documentary and Animation Shorts Competition, ~ersity's 6thl__J I !Short Film Competition, and the I I Screen I lay Competition, among others. The 
Petitioner provided screenshots of articles demonstrating the I andl I Screenplay 
award winners received media coverage on the website Ihlas Haber Ajansi (Iha.com.tr). The Petitioner 
also submitted screenshots showing that he presented the Best Short Documentary award to the winner 
at the I !competition, which was televised onl I TV." However, the documented 
amount of coverage does not establish that the Petitioner garnered national recognition in the field 
based on his work as a judge in these competitions. The record contains little background information 
regarding the nature or scope of the competitions he judged, or the level of recognition associated with 
being selected as a judge. While we note that at least one of these competitions had a televised awards 
ceremony, the record does not contain evidence regarding the station that broadcast the awards and its 
intended audience. As a result, we cannot determine that the Petitioner's judging activities reflect 
that he is one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
8 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted evidence that he is a member and "advisory 
committee member" of SINEBIR (Turkey's "Film Authors' Collecting Society"), a member of the 
advisory board of the Center for Turkish Cinema Studies (TSA), and a member of the International 
Competitiveness Research Group (URAK), an organization that does not appear to be related to the 
film industry. While his membership in Turkish film industry associations is noted, the record does 
not contain sufficient supporting evidence regarding these groups or their membership requirements 
and selection procedures to establish that such memberships, even at the advisory board or committee 
level, are indicative of the Petitioner's national acclaim as a film maker. 
Considered in its totality, the evidence in the record demonstrates that the Beneficiary is a talented 
film director, screenwriter, author and lecturer who is well-respected within Turkey based on his broad 
experience in the film and television industries. While his experience is wide-ranging and includes 
several notable accomplishments, the Petitioner has not shown that his artistic achievements at this 
point of his career, in any one area or as a whole, are indicative of one who has risen to the very top 
of his field of endeavor with sustained national or international acclaim, as required. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2)-(3). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished 
to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 5, 2024 In Re: 34946135 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an author, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met three of the four claimed evidentiary criteria: published 
material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), and display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Although the Director explained why 
the Petitioner did not satisfy the high salary criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), the Director 
did not provide a discussion for the favorable criteria determinations. 
For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not established his satisfaction for at least three 
categories of evidence. In addition, the Petitioner submits new evidence and argues new eligibility 
claims on appeal. Because the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide this evidence and make these claims, we will not consider them for the first time on appeal. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l 1) (requiring all requested evidence be submitted together at one time); 
Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence submitted 
on appeal because "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable 
opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As indicated above, the Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion. Because the record 
does not contain published material about the Petitioner relating to his work, we will withdraw the 
Director's favorable decision for this criterion. 
2 
I The record reflects the Petitioner submitted seven screenshots of articles from the following websites: 
chosun.com, hani.co.kr, cine21.com, gokorea.kr, artinsight.co.kr (2), and munhaknews.com. All of 
the articles discuss, comment, or critique the Petitioner's two books ________ andI Although the material briefly indicates the Petitioner as the author of the books, they do 
report, discuss, or cover him or otherwise reflect published material about him. The plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]]ublished material about the alien." 1 We 
consider the term "published material about the alien" using their ordinary, common meaning. See, 
e.g., Perrin v. United States, 444 U.S. 37, 42 (1979) ("A fundamental canon of statutory construction 
is that, unless otherwise defined, words will be interpreted as taking their ordinary, contemporary, 
common meaning ...."). In this case, the articles are about the books rather than about the Petitioner. 2 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's favorable determination for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation 
paid to others working in the field. 3 The Petitioner provided the sales revenue for I I In 
addition, the Petitioner submitted a publishing agreement between I I(publisher) 
and the Petitioner reflecting the publisher would pay the Petitioner 3 million KRW as a down payment 
and: 
[Publisher] shall pay [Petitioner] as royalties an amount equal to 10% of the list price 
of the paper book of this work multiplied by the publishing number. However, if the 
book is sold in more than 50,000 copies (starting from 50,001 copies), an additional 
1 % royalties (total 11 %) are paid, and ifnot more than 100,000 copies are sold (starting 
from 100,001 copies), an additional I% is paid (total of 12%). 
The Petitioner also presented average hourly and annual salary data for writers in South Korea and the 
United States. However, the Petitioner did not submit the proper comparative data based on his type 
of compensation. Specifically, the Petitioner did not earn an hourly, monthly, or annual salary, nor 
was the Petitioner compensated at a traditional hourly, monthly, or annual rate. Rather, as indicated 
above, the Petitioner received a down payment and royalties, depending on the sold copies ofhis book. 
Thus, in order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he has 
commanded significantly high remuneration for services rather than commanding a high salary since 
he does not receive an hourly or yearly salary. Because the Petitioner did not compare his down 
payment or royalty terms or his actual royalty payments "in relation to others in the field," the 
Petitioner did not establish he has commanded significantly high remuneration. 
1 See also generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (indicating that USCTS determines whether the published 
material was related to the person and the person's specific work in the field for which classification is sought). 
2 Here, the evidence solely discussing the Petitioner's books relate more to establishing original contributions of major 
significance in the field under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which the Petitioner also claimed, rather than under the published 
material criterion. 
3 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). 
3 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies two categories of evidence, discussed above. Because the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
need not decide on the Director's favorable conclusions for the original contributions and display 
criteria. We also need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 4 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 5, 2024 In Re: 34820718 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a real estate broker who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the record did not establish that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The Petitioner filed a subsequent motion to reopen and reconsider that the Director dismissed for not 
meeting the requirements of those motion types. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
We begin any appeal ensuring the filing party identifies an erroneous conclusion of law or statement 
of fact within the most recent decision in a previous proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), 
103.3(a)(2)(i)-(iv). This applies to appeals of adverse conclusions on petitions and applications or 
appeals of adverse decisions on motions. Under that framework , we look to whether the Director met 
their responsibilities for that particular type of decision ( e.g., petition denials or revocations versus 
motion dismissals) . When it comes to motions, we evaluate the following: 
1. For a motion to reopen at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) we consider whether the Petitioner stated 
new facts and supported those facts with documentary evidence; and 
2. For a motion to reconsider at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) we consider whether the Petitioner 
established the Director's prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or 
policy, and whether the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 
As a result, we consider whether the Petitioner has demonstrated that the Director improperly 
dismissed the motion to reopen and reconsider. But here, the Petitioner's appeal brief contains the 
identical arguments she presented to the Director when she filed her combined motions, and she only 
amended the brief in some parts to reflect the case is procedurally now being appealed instead of 
motioned. In other words, she argues on appeal why she believes the Director's petition denial was 
incorrect instead of why the Director's motion dismissal was performed in error. So, her failure to 
address why the Director's motion dismissal contained any erroneous conclusion of law or statement 
of fact is a singularly sufficient basis to dismiss her appeal. 
But, even considering a portion of the underlying petition denial, the Petitioner initially claimed she 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in 
the field under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Petitioner asserted she earned a high 
salary or a significantly high remuneration based on the earnings of her real estate brokerage company 
consisting of the company earnings and what she presents as its commissions from 2022. 
Subsequently, the Petitioner claimed the company's earnings and commissions as comparable 
evidence. 
When the Director denied the petition, they noted among other shortcomings, that the Petitioner did 
not provide evidence ofthe salary or remuneration that the Beneficiary actually received. In particular, 
the Director discussed the letter from the Petitioner's accountant and two pages of a business tax 
return. The Director noted a lack of evidence to corroborate the accountant's claims that all the 
company's earnings were essentially the Petitioner's earnings. The Director also raised the issue that 
even though the partial tax return reflected compensation for the organization's officers' and salaries 
and wages, the material as a whole left it unclear what amount the company paid to the Petitioner or 
what amount remained that she could claim under the salary or remuneration criterion. 
And because the Petitioner had directly claimed the salary or remuneration criterion, the Director did 
not offer analysis of her comparable evidence claims as foreign nationals may only properly claim 
comparable evidence "if it is determined that the evidentiary criteria described in the regulations do 
not readily apply to the person's occupation." See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Further, USCIS policy provides that "[a] general unsupported 
assertion that the listed evidentiary criterion does not readily apply to the petitioner's occupation is 
not probative." Id. Stated differently, the filing party must demonstrate that the criterion is not readily 
applicable to their occupation and general statements or claims are not sufficient to allow them to 
claim comparable evidence. 
But simply claiming the company's earnings as the Beneficiary's own is problematic, as those are 
earnings for the organization, and her appeal does not address the Director's conclusions. Although 
the motion brief-and the nearly identical appeal brief-address the company's total income, the tax 
returns reflect deductions from total income reducing the amount by 87 percent. We observe the 
Petitioner's claims and some evidence in the record characterizes the company's total income as 
comm1ss10ns. 
Yet, the partial tax returns are not in agreement with that characterization. Instead, the partial tax 
returns reflect that amount is the organization's gross receipts or sales rather than a form of income 
2 
earned from business transactions. The Petitioner must resolve this ambiguity in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). The Petitioner has not presented a persuasive argument why the company's sales 
without adjusting for the expenses of generating those sales (i.e., gross sales) should be the amount 
we consider as her salary or remuneration. 
On the partial tax returns, subtracting the deductions from the gross receipts or sales would result in 
the remaining amount of $132,524 as the high salary or significantly high remuneration the Petitioner 
could claim under the relative criterion. 1 As evidence in which to compare this amount under the 
salary criterion, the Petitioner offered data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and other resources 
mostly demonstrating what the average or mean salary was for real estate brokers across the United 
States or by state. She also offered more granular data for real estate brokers in different parts of 
Florida, where she operates the business. 
But some of the data in that evidence was in conflict. For example, an article from Zip Recruiter 
reflected the average pay in Florida was $80,917 while those working in the I Iarea earn 
approximately 11 percent more than that amount, but the evidence from Indeed only reflected the 
average salary for a real estate broker inl lof $78,367. The Petitioner did not explain why she 
offered evidence from one source reflecting an average salary for a higher paying area that was well 
below the average salary for the entire state contained within other evidence. The Petitioner must 
remedy this discordant information in the record. Such a correction must be demonstrated through the 
submission of relevant, independent, and objective evidence that reveals which facts are accurate. See 
Ho, 19 I&N Dec. at 591-92. 
That brings us to our final point the Director raised in their request for evidence and in the petition denial. 
The Director informed the Petitioner she did not provide evidence showing what other similarly 
positioned real estate brokers who were business owners were commanding as a salary or remuneration 
(versus those who work under another broker such as associate brokers), and specifically in the I I 
Florida area where the Petitioner operates her company. In the Petitioner's motion filing, she offered 
evidence relating to this aspect showing that managing real estate brokers in Florida earn an average 
salary of $156,498. She also offered evidence from other sources presenting average or median 
compensation in the United States in general. 
We note the salary.com website contained a tool for the Petitioner to specify a city in Florida, which could 
have increased the average salary data, but she did not make that selection when printing out the evidence. 
We reiterate that the ambiguity the Petitioner introduced in the record of what amount her compensation 
was, weighs against her here too. As it appears her after-expense compensation was $132,524 for the 
provided tax year, that is well below the average for managing real estate brokers, even when 
considering the entire state of Florida. 
While salary surveys for the state where the Petitioner works are relevant, a more accurate comparison 
would be in the specific area where she operates, especially when that area is known to have significantly 
1 Because the Petitioner only offered a partial two-page tax return, the record does not inform us what fell under line 19 
"Other deductions" because the foreign national did not provide the full tax return with the required attached statement. 
This serves to further cloud whether any portion of those funds resulted in a salary or remuneration for the Petitioner. 
3 
elevated property values compared to other parts ofthe state. We note the USCIS Policy Manual informs 
petitioners that specific geographic evidence, or material pertinent to the applicable work location, could 
be considered to be more relevant than other types of evidence. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, F.2(8)(1 ). 
Also, surveys detailing salaries at the upper end ofan occupation are more valuable than those showing 
only average, median, or mean wages. Proving a salary is "above average" typically doesn't suffice 
to establish "a high salary or other significantly high remuneration." More comprehensive wage data 
is needed to effectively demonstrate eligibility under this criterion. 
Not only has the Petitioner failed to identify an error in the Director's decision on her motions, but she 
also did not orient the appeal brief to address that decision. The failure to do so means her appeal does 
not overcome the most recent decision from the Director. It also means this appeal warrants a 
summary dismissal according to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), and it was unnecessary 
that we provide the above analysis under the salary or remuneration criterion. 
Further, because the most recent decision was related to the motions and not to the petition filing, 
when the Petitioner did not contest any issue within the Director's motion decision, she abandoned 
her claims relating to those issues. E.g., Matter Khan, 28 I&N Dec. 850, 852 n.4 (BIA 2024) (finding 
a topic is waived that was an issue before the lower adjudicative body but the filing party does not 
raise it on appeal); see also Silberman v. Miami Dade Transit, 927 F.3d 1123, 1134 n.6 (11th Cir. June 
17, 2019). We make this notation to inform the Petitioner that an attempt to file a motion on this 
appellate decision to address the Director's motion dismissal will not likely be considered, as those 
topics are waived throughout any proceeding based on this particular petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 06, 2023 In Re: 29200858 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a former professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification by providing evidence of his receipt of a 
major internationally recognized award or by satisfying at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner 's appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. 
We have since adjudicated fifteen motions filed by the Petitioner between 2014 and 2023 . Most 
recently, we dismissed a motion to reconsider on June 8, 2023. The matter is now before us on 
combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss both 
motions. 
In our latest decision, we determined that the Petitioner's fifteenth motion did not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider as stated at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). While we acknowledged 
that the Petitioner submitted a brief and summarized the assertions he made therein, we concluded that 
those assertions did not demonstrate how we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in our 
immediate prior decision dated February 2, 2023, in which we dismissed his fourteenth motion. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome) . 
In support of the current motion, the Petitioner has submitted a brief, copies of his previous motion 
filings, and copies of previous USCIS receipt notices, transfer notices, and decisions issued by the 
Director and by our office. The previous motions, corresponding decisions, and other notices are 
already part of the record and are not new evidence that could provide proper cause for reopening the 
proceeding. Further, although the Petitioner submits a brief: he does not state any new facts that would 
warrant reopening. Accordingly, his submission does not meet the requirements ofa motion to reopen. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we incorrectly stated in our June 8, 2023 decision that we had 
dismissed his 14 previous motions. 1 The Petitioner emphasizes that he has filed "much more" than 
14 previous motions, suggests that we "ignored" certain motions, and maintains that USCIS "needs to 
find the missing motions" and approve his case. 
As noted, this motion includes documentation related to the Petitioner's previous motion filings. 
While it is true that the Petitioner had filed more than 14 prior motions at the time we issued our latest 
decision, the record reflects that some of these motions were filed in connection with the denial of his 
Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status and associated applications 
for employment authorization, while the first two motions filed in connection with this petition pre­
dated the filing of the Petitioner's appeal and were adjudicated by the Director. None of these 
additional motions fell under our jurisdiction and were therefore not included in our summary of the 
procedural history of the Petitioner's case. We have adjudicated the Petitioner's initial appeal and all 
15 motions that fell under our jurisdiction and the record reflect that all other motions were adjudicated 
by the USCIS office with jurisdiction over them. The record does not support the Petitioner's claim 
that certain motions were ignored, are missing, or otherwise remain unadjudicated. 
The Petitioner further asserts that our latest decision dismissing his fifteenth motion "didn't answer 
any facts" he submitted in support of his motion to reconsider, did not include a final merits 
determination as described in Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010), and did not consider 
that all the evidence submitted to date "met more than 100% ofthe requirements ofUSCIS" and should 
have resulted in the approval of his petition. 
We emphasize again that by regulation, the scope of a motion to reconsider is limited to "the prior 
decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). The Petitioner's fifteenth motion was not a motion to reconsider 
1 The Petitioner also objects to our statement that we "dismissed" 14 prior motions, noting that some ofthose motions were 
"denied" while others were "dismissed." The Petitioner claims that there is a distinction between a motion that is 
"dismissed" as opposed to "denied," but provides no legal support for the asseition. While the AAO has used both terms 
interchangeably over the course of adjudicating the Petitioner's 15 prior motions, we discern no difference in the 
outcome. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) ("A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed."). While 
inconsistent, we deem this to be a harmless error at most, as it did not affect the outcome of the decision and has not 
prejudiced the Petitioner. 
2 
the denial of the petition or any other earlier decision; our scope of review was limited to our decision 
dismissing the fourteenth motion. 
As noted, in our latest decision, we acknowledged and briefly summarized the Petitioner's various 
claims that he is eligible for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. However, as we 
explained in the decision, none ofthe Petitioner's assertions in the previous motion demonstrated how 
we erred in our immediate prior decision dismissing his fourteenth motion, and therefore did not 
establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, as required to meet 
the requirements of a motion to reconsider at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In adjudicating the Petitioner's 
fifteenth motion, we were not required to consider new objections to the earlier denial, new allegations 
of error at prior stages of the proceeding or claims of eligibility that had already been addressed on 
appeal and in our prior motion decisions. The Petitioner has not cited any relevant law, precedent, or 
USCIS policy in support of his claim that we were required to address every point raised in his brief 
or to conduct a de novo review of the entire record of proceeding. We have reviewed the Petitioner's 
prior motion to reconsider and confirm that it contained no specific claim that our dismissal of the 
fourteenth motion was based on an incorrect application of law or policy. Therefore, the Petitioner 
has not established that we improperly dismissed the fifteenth motion. 
The Petitioner's remaining contentions in the current motion merely reargue facts and issues we have 
already considered in our previous decisions. See e.g., Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, in essence, the same 
brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior Board 
decision"). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, therefore, the underlying petition remains 
denied. 
The Petitioner has not established new facts sufficient to overcome our previous decision. Nor has he 
established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the 
time we issued our decision. Consequently, the Petitioner has not met the applicable requirements for 
either a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. The motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 06, 2024 In Re: 35282842 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks employment-based first preference (EB-I) immigrant classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Texas Service Center denied the petition and dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
motion to reconsider , concluding that he had satisfied only two of ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) , of which he must meet at least three. The matter came before us on appeal 
from the dismissal of the motion, and we determined that the Petitioner met a third initial criterion. 
We therefore withdrew the Director's decision and remanded the matter for the Director to render a 
final merits determination in keeping with the framework set forth in Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 20 I0) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
The Director again denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
of the initial evidentiary criteria, he did not show sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. The matter is now before us on motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 1 See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d at 1115 ( discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 2 
Furthermore, a motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies 
these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested benefit. Because the scope of a 
motion is limited to the prior decision, we will only review the latest decision in these 
proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In our decision dismissing the appeal, we agreed with the Director that the Petitioner had not 
demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner had 
demonstrated that he satisfied three of the initial criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we evaluated the 
totality of the evidence, including the evidence submitted in support of the three criteria he satisfied 
as well as the other criteria he claimed to meet, in the context of the final merits determination. In our 
final merits determination, we explained that the Petitioner had not shown the significance of his work 
is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, we determined that the Petitioner had not 
demonstrated he has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing that objectively meeting the 
regulatory criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (instructing that USCTS officers should consider the petition 
in its entirety to determine eligibility according to the standard -sustained national or international acclaim and the 
achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, indicating that the person is one of that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor). 
2 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that the preponderance of the evidence shows that he is one of that 
small percentage who have risen to the top of their field of endeavor and that he has sustained national 
or international claim, with achievements that have been recognized in his field of expertise. 
With respect to his participation as a judge of the work of others, the Petitioner asserts that our 
assessment of his service as a reviewer on a panel judging Ph.D. theses (five instances from 2003 until 
2010) at his alma mater, ___________________ _, was in error. He argues 
that "the Ph.D. Law degree is the highest possible academic degree a lawyer can obtain" and therefore 
his participation as a reviewer for Ph.D. dissertation committees atl Ishows he "has sustained 
acclaim as a professional at the very top of his field." 
An evaluation ofthe significance ofhis judging experience is appropriate to determine ifsuch evidence 
is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this highly restrictive classification. See 
Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.3 At issue here is the extent to which the Petitioner's service as a 
reviewer on a panel judging Ph.D. theses is commensurate with sustained national or international 
acclaim or a level of expertise placing him among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. 4 The Petitioner, however, has not established we erred in concluding that that his judging 
experience did not place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Nor has he demonstrated we erred in determining that his participation as a judge did 
not contribute to a finding that he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based 
on his work as a thesis reviewer at his alma mater. Nor did the Petitioner establish that his work as a 
Ph.D. thesis reviewer resulted in or reflects his sustained national or international acclaim in the field, 
was recognized outside ofl Ior places him among that small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. 
Regarding his authorship of two law books and a law book chapter between 1995 and 2005, the 
Petitioner argues that we erred in concluding that his published work was insufficient to demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. He contends that his 
"published work has not only received interest and attention, but has been considered an original 
contribution of major impact in the legal field." The Petitioner further claims that USCIS "never 
requested additional evidence to corroborate the importance of the Petitioner's publications. Had it 
done so the Petitioner would have provided additional evidence." The Director's August 2020 request 
for evidence (RFE), however, listed the types ofdocuments a petitioner may choose to submit to show 
the significance of their original contributions, including "[ o ]bj ective, documentary evidence that the 
major significant contribution has provoked widespread public commentary in the field or has been 
widely cited." Additionally, in the October 2023 decision denying the petition, the Director 
specifically explained: 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated 
to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 The Petitioner did not present documentation indicating specific requirements for selection of its reviewers. 
For instance, judging theses for a university that selects its reviewers based on subject matter expertise would not provide 
strong support for the petition. because possessing expertise in a given field is a considerably lower threshold than having 
sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of the field. 
3 
The Petitioner is required to demonstrate that the research and publishing career is 
sustained and that the impact of the research has risen to the level where it places the 
Petitioner at the very top of the field. 
Evidence such as citation records can establish that the Petitioner's publications have 
been cited by researchers and that the impact of the publications has risen to such a 
level that it places the Petitioner at the very top of the field. The Petitioner submitted 
a letter froml !Justice of theI I 
I I as evidence of what the Petitioner's counsel calls "major recognition" of his 
2003 book. Though the letter asserts that the book ".... provoked widespread 
commentary among legal scholars and has been cited extensively as an authoritative 
source in academic discussions as well as in legal cases," the record does not contain 
evidence that sufficiently supports the assertion. The record does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner's overall publishing career or experience has generated a level of impact 
and recognition that, together with all the other evidence, places the Petitioner among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective documentary evidence to establish that 
his publication record has garnered a level of attention that reflects a "career of 
acclaimed work" and sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner's RFE response and appellate submission offered two opportunities for him to provide 
additional evidence to corroborate the importance ofhis publications and their contribution in the legal 
field. Our appellate decision reiterated that publication of one's work does not automatically place an 
individual at the top of their field. 5 We explained that the citation history or other evidence of the 
influence of his publications can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his work 
has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous 
independent citations for an article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work 
has been recognized and that others have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final 
merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
On motion, the Petitioner repeats his earlier claim that the influence ofhis published work is evidenced 
by a letter he initially submitted from Justice IJustice ofthel I I I and founder of theI IJustice I Iasserted the 
Petitioner's book ____________ (10B 2003), "has introduced a new legal 
classification involving the taxation of electronic commercial transactions, which provoked 
widespread commentary among legal scholars, and has been cited extensively as an authoritative 
source in academic discussions as well as in legal cases." 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (providing that publications should be evaluated to determine 
whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor 
and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
However, as indicated in our appellate decision, the Petitioner has not provided corroborating evidence 
showing that any of his authored works were used as a reference or that his works have been widely 
cited or utilized, and therefore sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in his field commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the 
Petitioner did not show the application of his written work by the field and that it represents attention 
at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not compare his authored works to others in his field 
of endeavor that are recognized as already being at the top in his field. 
While the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he has authored two law books and a law book 
chapter between 1995 and 2005, he has not demonstrated that this publication record is consistent with 
having a "career of acclaimed work" or qualifies for this "very high standard." See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991 ). In addition, he did not establish that his authorship 
of three published materials is reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of his 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not show that he has sustained national 
or international acclaim as his most recent published material, a book chapter, was last published in 
2005. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated we erred 
in concluding that his published work was insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national 
or international acclaim at the very top of his field. 
As it relates to his position as a managing partner for '--------------------'I Isince 1989, our appellate decision acknowledged that the Petitioner has performed in a leading 
role for the law firm. 6 The Petitioner asserts on motion that our assessment of the relevance of the 
Petitioner's leading and critical roles for distinguished organizations was based on an incorrect 
application of law and policy. He points out that was recognized by Corporate INTL Magazine 
with a 2020 Global A ward for and 
that his firm was ranked among the top 20 full-service law firms from 2008 to 2015 by _I Iwhich contribute to a finding that his firm has enjoyed a 
distinguished reputation. The Petitioner also highlights the letter from Justice I I and a letter 
from I I vice president of the board of legal and legislative affairs of the I I 
With regard to the Petitioner's previous employment with other entities, Justice I I letter 
indicates that based upon the Petitioner's "stature as a leader in his field" he was appointed to serve 
as the first coordinator of the Post-Graduate and Extension courses ofI I 
between 2011 and 2014. Mr.I I states that I I supported the Petitioner's appointment to serve 
as Judge of the (2004-2005) and Judge of the I 
I I(2006-2008). Our appellate decision explained that the letters from Justicel 
and Mr. I Idid not address how the Petitioner's positions were leading or critical to these 
organizations, nor did they provide details of how the Petitioner achieved national or international 
acclaim based on these positions. Apart from these letters, we noted that the record lacks other 
independent evidence, such as news articles or other relevant materials, demonstrating that the field 
has widely recognized the Petitioner's specific roles or contributions to these employers in a manner 
that evidences a career of acclaimed work. We concluded that the evidence did not show that his roles 
6 This role is indicative of some degree of acclaim in his field. 
5 
and achievements at 
are at a level that places him among "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner's motion 
does not explain how our discussion of this evidence was erroneous. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, our appellate decision considered additional 
documentation in the record in determining that the totality of the evidence did not demonstrate the 
Petitioner's eligibility. We concluded that the Petitioner's evidence neither fulfills the requirements 
of any further evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that he has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As it relates to his claimed original contributions in the legal field, the Petitioner provided letters of 
support from several individuals. He argues on motion that his "achievements have been considered 
of major significance in his field." We explained in our appellate decision that the letters of support 
generally summarized the Petitioner's professional accomplishments and work history. The letters, 
however, did not explain how the Petitioner's achievements have been considered by the field to be 
of major significance. Moreover, they did not contain detailed information showing the unusual 
influence or high impact his contributions have had on the overall field. For instance, in his letter, 
Justice Iprovides that in 2013 the Petitioner successfully argued a case before the which 
resulted in a portion of a 1994 law being declared unconstitutional that had required the Petitioner's 
clients, rural employers, to pay a social security contribution from revenues from the sale of rural 
products. Although Justice I Iasserts that the Petitioner "exercised significant influence in the 
Brazilian legal field" because the holding in the case applies "to all 26 Brazilian States and the Federal 
District," he does not address, for example, whether references to that case are indicative of its 
significant impact in the field, nor does his letter sufficiently support the assertion that the Petitioner 
is considered among that small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor or how he has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner asks on motion that we reconsider our determination based on Justice! Istanding 
in the field, but does not articulate how our analysis of his letter and the additional letters of support 
is based on an incorrect application of law or USCIS policy. The recommendation letters offered by 
the Petitioner do not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include 
adequate corroborating evidence, to show that he is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) 
Regarding published material, the Petitioner states on motion that articles in Valor, 
Bloombergnews.com, and Washington Post show that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim at the very top of his field. In our appellate decision, we noted that he provided copies of five 
articles. Two of those articles, published in the print version of the Brazilian publication Valor in 
2006 and 2009, do not identify an author of the material. 7 The remaining articles were not about the 
Petitioner relating to his work but were about recent trends in the field. 8 For example, a 2016 article 
7 The inclusion of the author is not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
8 The language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]]ublished material about the alien." See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
6 
from Bloombergnews.com about Brazilian investors having bid up stocks in ant1c1pation of the 
country's recovery from recession, quotes the Petitioner, among several financial advisors, who opines 
that "[c]lients are looking at assets, looking at concessions that are cheap." A 2015 Washington Post 
article titled uotes the Petitioner 
who states, 
____________________ The Petitioner also provided a 2003 article 
from Valor which quotes him as confirming the ouster of the firm of from 
the legal consulting field and his firm's acquisition of "42 professionals." 
Our appellate decision indicated the Petitioner had not shown that the aforementioned level of media 
attention was consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly 
restrictive classification. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. We concluded the Petitioner also did 
not show that his overall press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, we determined the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting reflects a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very high standard . . . to present more extensive 
documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The Petitioner 
does not articulate how our determination regarding his media coverage is based on an incorrect 
application of law or users policy. 
The Petitioner also claims on motion that our assessment ofhis remuneration was based on an incorrect 
application of law or users policy. The record reflects that he received total compensation of 
R$10,713,428 in 2015 (taxable income of R$55,965 and non-taxable, profit-sharing income of 
R$10,657,463) as managing partner at his law firm. As evidence that his earnings are high relative to 
the compensation paid to others working in the field, the Petitioner provided 2020 salary data for 
attorneys in Brazil from Salaryexplorer.com and Payscale.com. Because the salary data from 2020 is 
not contemporaneous with the year for which the Petitioner has documented his earnings (2015), he 
has not shown that the former offers a proper comparison with his compensation. Further, the 
information from Payscale.com states: "Individuals Reporting: 6 -Based on 6 salary profiles (last 
updated Jan 17 2020)."9 
Our appellate decision agreed with the Director that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that he had 
earned a high salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to similarly employed 
workers. 10 Specifically, the Petitioner's position ofmanaging partner at indicates both a different 
and a higher job classification than an attorney. The Petitioner's position contains further job duties 
and responsibilities than an attorney, reflecting a managerial position. 
9 The burden is on the Petitioner to establish the accuracy and reliability ofthe comparative earnings data. When evaluating 
whether a comparison between an individual's documented remuneration and the remuneration in the survey is accurate, 
USCTS considers "the validity of the survey. Some websites provide user-reported salary data, which may not be a valid 
comparison if,for example, too few users reported their salaries, or the data is otherwise not credible or reliable." See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
10 The petitioner submitted evidence that combines both salary and remuneration. The language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) makes a distinction between salary and remuneration. A salary must be "high" and other remuneration 
must be "significantly high." While the regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) allows for evidence of "other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field," the Petitioner did not provide evidence 
showing that his profit-sharing compensation is "significantly high" compared to other managing partners. 
7 
The Petitioner has not shown that he has received a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
in relation to other managing partners in his field. See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. 
Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also 
Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary 
information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. 
INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL 
enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL 
defensive player to salary ofother NHL defensemen). Because the Petitioner did not provide sufficient 
evidence demonstrating the salaries or remuneration ofother managing partners, he has not established 
that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation 
to others in the field. 
While the Petitioner argues on motion that his total compensation is considerably higher that the 
figures reported for attorneys by Salaryexplorer.com, the record does not include supporting evidence 
that would allow synchronous comparison between his total remuneration and that of other managing 
partners in his geographic area. Therefore, the evidence does not establish that he receives total 
remuneration that is "significantly high" or that his earnings are comparable to those of individuals at 
the very top of the field. Nor has the Petitioner shown that his earnings record after 2015 is indicative 
of"sustained national or international acclaim." 11 See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The Petitioner has not shown we erred as a matter of law or USCIS policy in determining the totality 
of the evidence did not show that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that he is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Considering the petition in its entirety and the Petitioner's arguments 
on motion, we conclude that the record, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the 
Petitioner's eligibility for the benefit sought. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that our appellate decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or USCIS policy and that our decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the 
time of the decision. Consequently, we have no basis for reconsideration of our decision. 
Accordingly, the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The Petitioner's appeal therefore 
remains dismissed, and his underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
11 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(l) (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and providing 
Black's Law Dictionary's definition of "sustain" is "to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time ... To 
persist in making (an effort) over a long period of time"). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 7, 2023 In Re: 28980948 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a project manager in augmented reality and virtual reality, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not satisfy 
at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined the Petitioner did not 
fulfill any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains he meets four evidentiary categories. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims eli ibilit for this criterion based on his recei t of the Certificate of Merit from 
the,__________________________ _. USCIS determines if the 
person was the recipient of prizes or awards. 1 The description ofthis type of evidence in the regulation 
indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to the 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
USCIS then determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or 
award, which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. 3 As indicated by the plain 
language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of 
recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one­
time achievement. 4 
The Petitioner initially submitted a certificate indicating his receipt ofthe award "for his great personal 
contribution to the development of environmental management, environmental protection and active 
participation in the preparations for the Year of Ecology in Russia." In response to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided a letter from K-M-S-, director of the I 
who stated: 
1 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual 
2 Id. 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Id. 
2 I 
This award is given to civil servants of the._________________ __.I l federal services, and federal agencies under the Ministry's 
jurisdiction, their territorial bodies, employees of subordinate organizations, and other 
individuals for their personal contribution to the implementation of the state policy in 
the field of studying, using, reproducing, and protecting natural resources. 
The criteria for evaluation for receiving (the Honorary Certificate) are the project's 
uniqueness, its potential for subsequent use, its demonstration of responsible nature 
management, and its scalability. All of this is stated in the application, which is 
addressed to the Minister. Heads of subordinate organizations are responsible for the 
information provided in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation. In 
case of the detection of false information, the award is revoked, and the applicant is 
held responsible for the inaccurate information provided, up to criminal liability. 
The Petitioner did not establish how the letter reflects the national or international recognition for 
excellence in the field for the Certificate of Merit. The letter does not discuss the field's view of the 
Certificate of Merit or explain why the award is considered to be nationally or internationally 
recognized for excellence. In this case, although the letter provides some background information, 
such as the evaluating criteria, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the recognition of the award beyond 
the._________________ ____. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with the All-Russian 
Society for the Protection of Nature (ARSPN). USCIS determines if the association for which the 
person claims membership requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged 
by recognized experts in that field. 5 The petitioner must show that membership in the association 
requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts. 6 
The Petitioner initially submitted a membership confirmation letter from ARSPN and a 
recommendation letter from T-T-U-, member of ARSPN, who described several of the Petitioner's 
professional accomplishments but made no mention of the organization's membership requirements 
or judging body. In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided another letter from 
T-T-U-who stated: 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
3 
Persons who make obvious contribution to the development and popularization of the 
protection of nature in the territory of the Russian Federation can become members of 
our Society. Board of the Society and the Chairman make decision on admission to 
members of Society on the basis of application and delivery of documents that confirm 
the professional activities of the applicant and his/her contribution to the development 
and popularization ofthe protection ofnature in the territory of the Russian Federation. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate how the letter shows that membership with ARSPN requires 
outstanding achievements and recognized national or international experts determine membership. In 
fact, based on the letter, membership requires an "obvious contribution." The letter does not further 
elaborate and explain what constitutes an "obvious contribution" and how that is tantamount to an 
"outstanding achievement." Moreover, while the letter indicates that the board and chairman make 
the decision on admission, the letter does not show whether they are considered to be recognized 
national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The 
Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the criteria relating to awards and memberships. Although 
the Petitioner also claims eligibility for the published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and 
original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach these additional grounds 
because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 7 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
7 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing him among the upper 
echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 8, 2023 In Re: 29048144 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference 
(EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 201(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(l)(A). Noncitizens may obtain U.S. 
permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" 
and provide "extensive documentation" of recognition they received for achievements in their fields . 
Id. 
The Acting Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only one of 10 initial evidentiary criteria, two less than required before U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) would conduct a final merits determination for classification under 
the requested immigrant visa category. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in 
finding insufficient evidence of: published material about the Petitioner; his original contributions to 
his field; and his receipt of a high salary for his services. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that, while the Petitioner has submitted qualifying published materials about 
himself, he has not demonstrated that he meets a third evidentiary requirement. We will therefore 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of 10 lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(1-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the initial evidentiary requirements discussed above, users then 
determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements placing a noncitizen among the small percentage at the very top of their 
field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis 
of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANAL YSrS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chinese national and citizen, earned two master's degrees in 
management and a doctorate in engineering in his home country. He has more than 20 years of 
business management experience and currently serves as the chief executive officer (CEO) of an 
outdoor sporting goods company in China. He seeks to continue working as a business manager in 
the United States. 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major international award. 
He must therefore meet at least three of the 10 evidentiary requirements listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence that he "performed 
in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he also provided evidence of: 
published materials about himself; his original contributions to his field; and his receipt of a high 
salary for his services. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (v), and (ix). 
A. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This evidentiary standard requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is 
sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The evidence must include the title, date, and author of the 
material, and any necessary translations. Id. 
users first considers whether published material relates to a petitioner and their specific work in their 
field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(8)(1), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the 
Agency then determines whether the material's source qualifies as a professional or major trade 
publication, or other major medium. Id. 
1 Tfthe ten standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication , major trade 
publication, or major medi[um], relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 
Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of articles about himself published in four Chinese magazines from 
2020 to 2022. The articles relate to him and his work as a business manager. But the Director found 
that the materials do not establish the magazines as "professional or major trade publications, or other 
major media." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Director also questioned the authenticity of two 
of the magazine articles, finding that the Petitioner printed them "from websites that allow for anyone 
to create an account and publish articles." 
In response to the Director's request for additional evidence (RFE), the Petitioner submitted original 
issues of the magazines in which the articles about him appear. These original issues establish the 
articles' authenticity. The Petitioner also demonstrated that the magazines constitute professional 
publications. He submitted copies of online information from the publications describing the 
magazines ' intended audience as entrepreneurs and business managers . 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner has submitted evidence of published 
materials in professional publications about him and his business management work. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
B. Evidence of the Petitioner's Original Contributions 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . USCIS 
first considers whether a petitioner made original contributions in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). If so, the Agency then determines whether the contributions have major significance in 
the field. Id. Relevant evidence may include: published materials about the significance of a 
petitioner's original work; letters and affidavits about their work; documentation citing their work at 
a significant level in the field; and patents and licenses stemming from the work or evidence of the 
work's commercial use. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted letters and copies ofnews articles regarding acquisitions and financial results 
that companies achieved under his management. The Director, however, found that he did not 
demonstrate "how his contributions amounted to original work and how his work impacted the field 
as a whole in a major and significant way." 
Assuming arguendo that the Petitioner's management activities constitute original business-related 
contributions in his stated field of business management, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
has not sufficiently established the significance of his work in the field. The record shows that his 
companies' acquisitions and financial results affected the businesses and their individual industries. 
But the Petitioner does not explain how his achievements impacted the business management field as 
a whole. 
3 
Under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , we reasonably interpret the phrase "major significance in the field" 
to require impact "on the field as a whole." Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 187 (D.N.J. 
2021) (emphasis in original) (citations omitted). In Krasniqi, a federal court agreed with us that a 
petitioner who founded a film festival did not sufficiently demonstrate the event's significance in her 
designated field of cinematography. Id. The court found that the petitioner did not show that others 
in the field widely viewed or regarded the festival or that it introduced new cinematographic methods 
or ideas. Id. at 188. 
The Petitioner contends that his managerial decisions leading to successful acquisitions and profitable 
financial results constitute original contributions in the business management field. But, like the 
petitioner in Krasniqi, he has not sufficiently demonstrated the significance of his contributions in the 
field as a whole. Like the petitioner in Krasniqi, he has not shown that his achievements generated 
widespread interest in the field or introduced new business management methods, strategies , or ideas. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of a 2022 award for .__________ __, from the Chinese 
edition of the Harvard Business Review, a respected business management magazine . But the award 
bears the name of the Petitioner 's company, not his, and the record does not explain why the company 
received the award. Thus, the award does not sufficiently reflect widespread regard in the business 
management field for the Petitioner's contributions . 
The Petitioner also submitted recommendation letters from former supervisors of his and other 
business leaders. The letters recount his achievements. But they do not sufficiently explain the 
achievements' significance in the business management field. Thus, contrary to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner bas not submitted evidence of original business-related contributions 
of major significance in his field. 
C. Evidence of the Petitioner's High Salary 
This standard requires "[ e ]vidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Relevant 
evidence may include: tax returns, pay statements , or other evidence of past salary or remuneration 
for services; contracts, job offer letters, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for 
services; and comparative wage or remuneration data for a petitioner 's field, such as geographical or 
position-appropriate compensation surveys. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner initially stated that he received annual incomes of: 2,687,000 RMB 2 in 2019; 2,873,000 
RMB in 2020; and 3,128,000 RMB in 2021. But, in response to the Director's RFE, he changed those 
amounts to: 2,498,314 .57 RMB in 2019; 2,925,122.58 RMB in 2020; 3,893,894.83 RMB in 2021; 
and $3,137,609.46 RMB in 2022. 3 
The Petitioner also provided copies of compensation surveys and income tax records. The initial 
compensation surveys show that, as of 2021, 90% of CEOs of outdoor sporting goods companies 
received total annual cash benefits of less than 1,943,455 RMB. The Petitioner's RFE response 
2 RMB stands for Chinese yuan renrninbi. 
3 Based on current exchange rates, the Petitioner's 2022 annual income equates to about $440,729. XE Currency 
Converter, www.xe.com/currencyconverter. 
4 
included a 2022 compensation report listing the top salaries of a chief officer in the sales industry as 
2,400,000 RMB and of a general manager of a daily consumer goods company in the retail industry 
as 3,500,000 RMB. 
The Petitioner's initial filing included a first set oftax records, "Payment Records oflndividual Income 
Tax." These records show income tax amounts he paid from January 2019 through April 2022. The 
Petitioner's RFE response included a second set of tax records, "Beijing Tax Characteristic 
Applications." These records show both income tax amounts he paid and income amounts he received 
in 2019 through 2022. 
The second tax record set supports the Petitioner's claimed annual income amounts of 2,498,314.57 
RMB in 2019 and 2,925,122.58 RMB in 2020. But the 2021 annual income amount listed in the 
second set totals 2,223,061.50 RMB, not 3,893,894.83 RMB as the Petitioner most recently claims. 
Also, as the Director found, the Petitioner's tax record sets do not list the same tax amounts paid over 
the same periods, thus casting farther doubt on his claimed annual income amounts. Specifically, the 
first tax record set lists a June 6, 2021 tax payment of 730,715 RMB for income from wages and 
salaries that the second set omits. 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner stated that his 2021 annual income increased from the initial 
amount he provided because he received a delayed bonus payment from his prior employer. But that 
statement does not explain why the first tax record set indicates that he paid more taxes that year while 
earning less income. 
Although the Director's decision mentions discrepancies in the amounts of taxes paid, the Petitioner 
has not explained them. Rather, he urges us to use the second tax record set. But, because the paid 
2021 tax amounts in the second set differ from those in the first, he has not established the second set's 
accuracy, including the income amounts listed in it. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 
1988 (requiring a petitioner to resolve inconsistencies of record with independent, objective evidence 
pointing to where the truth lies). Thus, not only is the Petitioner's claimed income amount for 2021 -
which the second set does not support -unreliable, but his claimed annual income amounts for 2019 
and 2020 -which the second set supports -also lack credibility. Because the Petitioner has not reliably 
established his annual income amounts, he has not demonstrated that he has commanded a high salary 
in relation to others in the business management field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets at least three of 10 initial evidentiary requirements 
for the requested immigrant visa category. Thus, we need not make a final merits determination as to 
whether he qualifies as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability in his field. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues 
unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 
2015) ( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where an applicant does not otherwise qualify for 
relief). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner met a second initial evidentiary requirement by submitting copies of articles in 
professional publications about his work in the business management field. But he did not establish 
his satisfaction of a third evidentiary criterion as required for the requested immigrant visa category. 
We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19297197 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a cybersecurity firm, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner then filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The Director dismissed both 
motions. The Petitioner appealed that decision to us, and we dismissed the appeal. The matter is now 
before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was 
incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision and be supported by any 
pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
By regulation, the scope of a motion to reconsider is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i). Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reconsider the denial of the petition 
or the Director's dismissal of the Petitioner's first motion. Instead, the filing is a motion to reconsider 
our most recent decision. Therefore, we would not consider new objections to the earlier denial, and 
the present filing is not the place to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
The immediate question before us is not whether the Director erred in denying the petition or 
dismissing the earlier combined motion, which we considered in our appellate decision, but whether 
we erred in dismissing the appeal. We will, however, discuss earlier steps in the proceeding to provide 
necessary context. 
2 
The Petitioner filed its petition in December 2019; the Director initially denied the petition in March 
2020. In the March 2020 decision, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had met three of the 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), relating to participation as a judge of the work of 
others; original contributions of major significance; and authorship of scholarly articles. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not met three other claimed criteria, pertaining to membership in 
associations that require outstanding achievements; a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations; and high salary or other remuneration for services. Having granted three of the initial 
criteria, the Director then rendered a final merits determination, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
established that the Beneficiary had achieved sustained national or international acclaim among the 
small percentage at the very top of his field, as the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner filed its combined motion in May 2020, arguing that it had established the necessary 
acclaim, and submitting further evidence in an attempt to support that argument. The Director 
dismissed the combined motion in August 2020, noting that much of the new evidence concerns events 
that occurred after the petition's filing date, which cannot establish eligibility as of the filing date as 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
The Petitioner appealed that decision in October 2020. The appellate brief consisted primarily of 
arguments that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's sustained acclaim. The most direct 
reference to the Director's October 2020 decision was the Petitioner's assertion that, while some of 
the evidence came into existence after the petition's filing date, "all the work done by [ the Beneficiary] 
that led to his recognition was done prior to the filing date." 
We dismissed the appeal in May 2021, focusing, as the Petitioner had done, on the assertion that the 
Beneficiary has achieved sustained acclaim. 
On motion from the May 2021 decision, the Petitioner states: "We are filing this Motion to Reconsider 
so that the AAO [ Administrative Appeals Office] may redetermine that the District Director [sic] did 
in fact err in dismissing the Petitioner's previous motions to reopen and reconsider and ultimately 
denial [sic] the underlying petition considering the totality of the evidence." 
In its latest motion, the Petitioner identifies a number of claimed errors in the Director's August 2020 
decision, stating, for example, that the Director did not sufficiently explain the grounds for dismissal 
of the motion. The time to raise these objections would have been in the October 2020 appeal, but the 
Petitioner did not allege these errors at that time. It is the Petitioner's burden to identify specifically 
any erroneous conclusion oflaw or statement of fact as a basis for appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The Petitioner's untimely objections to newly alleged errors do not amount to good cause for 
reopening the proceeding; we did not err by failing to anticipate those objections or make them on the 
Petitioner's behalf As such, the Petitioner's new assertions do not identify errors of law or policy in 
our previous decision. 
The Director's August 2020 motion decision did not include detailed discussion of several merits 
issues because the Director had already made those determinations in the initial March 2020 denial 
notice. Our May 2021 appellate decision focused on merits issues because the Petitioner's appellate 
brief emphasized those issues. 
3 
Turning to those substantive issues, the Petitioner reiterates and expands upon prior assertions that the 
Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim is evident from the following factors: 
• Membership in Sigma Xi and senior membership in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers (IEEE); 
• Invitations to participate in panel discussions at professional conferences; 
• Publication of scholarly articles, cited by others in the field; and 
• Letters from various clients. 
We addressed each of these issues in our May 2021 dismissal. On motion, the Petitioner maintains 
that the factors discussed above suffice to establish the Beneficiary's sustained acclaim, but the 
Petitioner's arguments in this regard are not persuasive. For example, regarding memberships, the 
Petitioner asserts that well-known figures such as Albert Einstein and Linus Pauling were senior 
members of the IEEE. It does not follow that every senior member has comparable stature to these 
Nobel laureates. We explained, in our last decision, that the documented requirements for senior 
member status appear to fall well below the statutory threshold of sustained national or international 
acclaim The Petitioner, on motion, does not establish that acclaim is intrinsic to any of the senior 
membership requirements discussed. We also previously noted that the IEEE has a higher level of 
membership, "Fellow," with more stringent requirements. It also bears repeating that, while the IEEE 
solicits applications for senior membership, members cannot apply or nominate themselves for fellow 
status. 
The Beneficiary was not yet a member of Sigma Xi when the Petitioner filed the petition. As noted, 
a Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). We acknowledge 
the Petitioner's argument that the Beneficiary's achievements necessarily predate the recognition for 
those achievements, but it is the recognition that constitutes acclaim. Also, as discussed in our last 
decision, membership in Sigma Xi requires only "noteworthy achievement," defined so loosely as to 
encompass a great number of productive researchers. 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary's "[p ]articipation in the research panels necessarily 
required acclaim," and that "he would not have been invited" otherwise. The Petitioner does not 
identify any record evidence to establish that the particular panel invitations were based on acclaim 
rather than some lower threshold, such as subject matter expertise. The assertions of counsel do not 
constitute evidence, 1 and thus cannot amount to the "extensive documentation" that section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act demands. 
The Petitioner asserts that "enthusiastic and public praise" is, by definition, acclaim, and that other 
researchers have offered such praise by citing the Beneficiary's articles in their own scholarly work. 
The Petitioner has not shown that scholarly citation amounts to "enthusiastic and public praise," rather 
than acknowledgment of source material as required by standards of scholarly integrity. Citation of 
one's work is not a rare accolade achieved only by a small percentage at the very top of the field. 
1 See Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988); Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 
(BIA 1980). 
4 
Furthermore, the Petitioner does not establish that the Beneficiary's work is among the most highly­
cited in his field, which might have distinguished him from others publishing in the same field. 
In our May 2021 decision, we discussed letters that the Petitioner had submitted in support of its May 
2020 motion: 
In the context of the Beneficiary's acclaim, it is significant that the letters submitted on 
motion focused on the services that the Petitioner provided. Some letters did not 
mention the Beneficiary at all; others did so only to identify him as a member or leader 
of the team providing those services .... 
These letters amount to testimonials from satisfied clients; they do not show that the 
Beneficiary has earned sustained national or international acclaim in his field. 
On motion, the Petitioner emphasizes that "these letters are from well-established leaders around the 
U.S. and they are discussing work that can only be accomplished by a select few and [ the Beneficiary] 
was critical to the work being done." The Petitioner also contends that these letters express 
"enthusiastic and public praise," and, thus, acclaim. 
From the context, and because the Petitioner provides no specific details about the letters, we cannot 
determine whether the Petitioner is referring to letters submitted on motion, or a different group of 
letters submitted in support of the underlying petition. Any reference on motion to the earlier letters 
would not establish error in our last decision. (The Petitioner had submitted the earlier letters as 
evidence of the Beneficiary's original contributions to his field, and the Director granted the 
"contributions" criterion in the March 2020 decision.) 
As we noted in our prior decision, some of the letters submitted on motion do not mention the 
Beneficiary at all. The Petitioner does not explain how unpublished correspondence constitutes 
"public praise." The Beneficiary's involvement in projects for various clients is not intrinsically 
evidence of sustained national acclaim, regardless of the identities of those clients. Apart from the 
lack of corroboration, the assertion that the Beneficiary's "work can only be accomplished by a select 
few" speaks to the number of workers in a particular specialty, rather than the acclaim that those 
workers enjoy. (A high degree of specialization, by itself: does not constitute, or convey, acclaim.) 
The letters do not establish acclaim; they describe the work performed by a team of the Petitioner's 
employees, including the Beneficiary. 
The Petitioner has not identified errors of law or policy in our May 2021 decision, and its assertions 
of adjudicative error rely heavily on subjective or uncorroborated assertions as to what constitutes 
acclaim in the Beneficiary's field. Therefore, the Petitioner's latest filing does not meet the 
requirements of a motion to reconsider. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. We will therefore dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23071325 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an oil and gas specialist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. The Texas Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), concluding the Petitioner did 
not establish that they had a major, internationally recognized award, nor did they demonstrate they 
met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner 
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 
of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this 
matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he is an oil and gas construction s ecialist who earned a master's degree in 
project management from thel University in 2010, and a bachelor's degree in 
mechanical engineering from University India) in 2005. He also holds related project 
management certifications. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met five of the regulatory 
criteria in the following categories: 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities; and 
• High salary or remuneration. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles, but he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original contributions, leading 
or critical role, or high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meet each 
of the evidentiary criteria the Director declined to grant. 1 After reviewing all the evidence in the 
record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the judging and the scholarly articles 
criteria, but not any of the remaining claimed classes of evidence. 
1 We note the appeal brief in this case was in excess of 190 pages, of which only a small portion is necessa1y to dispose of this 
appeal. The overwhelming majority of the appellate evidence was previously offered before the Director, and we gently note 
for the Petitioner that the documentation he submitted for the record before the Director continues to be present for the appeal 
and it is unnecessary to resubmit large amounts of previously submitted materials. Garey v. James S. Farrin, P.C., 35 F.4th 
917, 920 n. l (4th Cir. 2022) (imploring litigants to only submit the necessary amount of material on appeal in the interest of 
the environment and citing Theodore Seuss Geissel, The Lorax 23 (1971) ("I speak for the trees, for the trees have no 
tongues.")). 
2 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we agree with the 
Director's decision. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirement here, is that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original. The 
plain language of this regulatory criterion also requires that the contributions rise to the level of major 
significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an organization. See Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 135-36. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it 
has some meaning. See United States v. Campos-Serrano, 404 U.S. 293,301 n.14 (1971) (finding that 
if it is possible, statutory or regulatory language ought to be construed in its entirety to prevent any 
clause, sentence, or word from being rendered be superfluous, void, or insignificant); Inhabitants of 
Montclair Twp. v. Ramsdell, 107 U.S. 147, 152 (1883). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must 
have already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner provided several letters from those working in the petroleum industry and he further 
claims eligibility here based on copyright certificates, a certificate of excellence, a peer-reviewed 
published book, participation in oil and gas conferences, and contracts with companies using his 
"developed technology." The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. The Director noted the Petitioner did not provide supporting material to corroborate 
the claims of the letters' authors. Additionally, although acknowledging the Petitioner's published 
and peer-reviewed work as supporting the originality of his contributions, they determined his articles 
and research did not reflect this material was of major significance in the broader field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims the Director overlooked much of the evidence he submitted. Even 
though the Petitioner's appeal brief lists the material he alleges the Director failed to evaluate in the 
decision, his appeal does not explain how this material-consisting of 166 pages-sufficiently 
satisfies this criterion's requirements. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013). Commensurate with that burden is 
responsibility for explaining the significance of proffered evidence. Repaka v. Beers, 993 F. Supp. 2d 
1214, 1219 (S.D. Cal. 2014). 
Filing parties should not submit large quantities of evidence without notifying the appellate body of 
the specific documentation that corroborates their claims within such material, as doing so places an 
undue burden on the appellate body to search through the documentation without the aid of the filing 
party's knowledge. Toquero v. INS., 956 F.2d 193, 196 n.4 (9th Cir. 1992). A reviewing body is not 
3 
required to sift through the record to search for errors and build the appellant's argument before 
dismissing the appeal. Id.; Spear Mktg., Inc. v. BancorpSouth Bank, 791 F.3d 586, 599 (5th Cir. 2015); 
S.E. C. v. Thomas, 965 F.2d 825, 827 (10th Cir. 1992). The truth is to be determined not by the quantity 
of evidence alone but by its quality. Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376 ( citing Matter of E-M-, 20 I&N 
Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989)). 
"[I]ssues adverted to in a perfunctory manner, unaccompanied by some effort at developed 
argumentation, are deemed waived." United States v. Warshak, 631 F.3d 266, 319 (6th Cir. 2010) 
(quoting Tolbert v. Queens College, 242 F.3d 58, 75 (2d Cir.2001)); see also McPherson v. Kelsey, 
125 F.3d 989, 995-96 (6th Cir. 1997). The Petitioner has essentially abandoned his claims under this 
criterion by not adequately presenting his arguments on appeal. Because the Petitioner has not 
satisfied his burden on appeal to inform us of how this significant amount of material should be applied 
to the regulatory requirements, we will not offer an in-depth discussion of his claims or the evidence. 
A brief review of the evidence and arguments advanced on appeal does not reveal that any of the 
Petitioner's activities have resulted in any significant impact on his broader field as a whole, as 
opposed to impacts on individual projects. The letters primarily discuss how he made improvements 
to particular projects or to operations within the companies that have employed him. And only one 
author of a support letter indicates he has relied on the Petitioner's work and implemented it within 
his company. However, what is lacking is an indication of how that has impacted the industry as a 
whole. It is also not apparent how the Petitioner's other achievements or works have resulted in a 
significant effect within the broader field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director determined the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion and we agree with that 
conclusion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the petitioner's impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. Ultimately, the leading or the critical role must be performed on 
behalf of the organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a subordinate group. 
See Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. 
May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535,545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for organizations or 
establishments as a whole. 
The Petitioner must demonstrate that the organizations or establishments have a distinguished 
reputation. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy reflects that organizations or 
establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (citing 
to the definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-
4 
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion as it relates 
to performing in a leading or in a critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner claims eligibility under two 
organizations: I I and I I 
The Petitioner relies on four letters on appeal as supporting evidence under this criterion. 
First, we discuss! !Whether this entity enjoys a distinguished reputation is a mandatory 
requirement. Regarding their reputation, the Petitioner provided his own account in correspondence, and 
in response to the Director's request for evidence he offered material about the organization from 
Wikipedia. With regard to information from Wikipedia, there are no assurances about the reliability of 
the content from this open, user-edited internet site. See United States v. Lawson, 677 F.3d 629, 
650-51 (4th Cir. 2012); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008); see also Sibanda 
v. Holder, 778 F.3d 676, 680 (7th Cir. 2015). The Wikipedia website even contains a disclaimer 
indicating it makes no guarantee of the validity of the information found on the site. Wikipedia: 
General disclaimer, Wikipedia (Dec. 9, 2022), 
https :// en. wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_ disclaimer. 
Although some of the letters the Petitioner provided, and his own filing statements, imply ___ 
might enjoy a distinguished reputation, the record lacks objective materials. Some examples might 
include but are not limited to prestigious awards, media coverage, or published rankings to 
demonstrate! I has a distinguished reputation. Also, we note the record lacks adequate 
evidence relating to the company's history in the industry. 
Because the Petitioner has not established I I enjoys a distinguished reputation, 1t 1s 
unnecessary that we offer a detailed analysis of the roles he has performed for them. Nevertheless, 
we offer a brief account. The Petitioner's roles at I 1 appear to be lower on the leadership 
spectrum as he was characterized as a "Project Management Professional" by I formerly the 
Construction Director of Global Technical Services at 11 I has not stated, nor has 
he described the Petitioner's duties or his performance in such a manner that the Petitioner can be said 
to have led the organization. The record does not establish the Petitioner performed in a leading role for I I Further, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that any subordinate entity ( e.g., individual 
projects, divisions, or departments) in which he led, themselves enjoyed a distinguished reputation. As a 
result, the Petitioner has not shown that he performed in a leading role for an organization or establishment 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation. 
Additionally, while his roles appear to have been leading or critical to individual projects, 
the record lacks evidence that those projects, either individually or collectively, resulted in any significant 
impact on the organization. And it is unclear from the record that the Petitioner's performance on the 
identified projects has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at (Appendices). Although 
we acknowledge his performance in some instances furthered his organization's broader business 
dealings, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that such incremental business arrangements rise to the level 
the regulation and USCIS policy requires. 
5 
Next, we consider whether the Petitioner has shown I I is a qualifying organization or 
establishment. Again, outside his own statements, the only evidence about this organization the 
Petitioner provided was an article about this entity originating from Wikipedia, which we noted above 
is not a reliable resource and does not satisfy his burden regarding this organization's reputation. As 
it relates to his role for this organization, the Petitioner provided a letter from a site manager who was 
the Petitioner's supervisor while he was a construction manager during the construction and 
pre-commission phase of a ______ production facility from 2006-2008. 
This former supervisor described the Petitioner's work as leading and critical on the single facility in 
India. Although the supervisor noted a novel idea the Petitioner proposed to increase I cash 
flow, the extent of this increase is not apparent from the letter, and we are unable to determine how 
critical those increased funds were to the organization's operations companywide. The evidence and 
the claims the Petitioner advances relating tol I are insufficient to satisfy the standard here. 
Although the Petitioner served in a managerial position on company projects, he has not submitted 
evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this criterion noting his recent work as a senior technical 
services specialist for I I falls under the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Outlook 
Handbook (Handbook) profile for Construction Managers. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion. Specifically, the Director found the Petitioner did not 
establish that the appropriate occupation in which to compare was that of Construction Managers. The 
Director noted the Petitioner's responsibilities exceeded what is normally associated with a 
Construction Manager and opined that it appeared a more appropriate comparison is an engineer in 
the oil and gas industry. 
On appeal, the Petitioner simply disagrees with the Director's findings and offers a letter from the 
human resources department forl I This letter states the position the Petitioner occupies 
was created for those who transition from field engineering roles to a construction management role 
on promotion and it is "at par with Dy. Construction Manager in the general construction industry." 
First, neither the letter nor the Petitioner explain what a "Dy Construction Manager" position consists 
of Nevertheless, it appears they are implying that this is a general construction managerial position. 
Although we accept I I account regarding the similarities between the position the 
Petitioner previously occupied in their organization and construction managers in general, we find the 
letter to be insufficient to satisfy the Petitioner's preponderance burden. The letter did not offer any 
job description for his position, much less a detailed explanation. Nor did it compare and contrast the 
responsibilities of the position the Petitioner occupied with the Construction Manager profile within 
the Handbook. At best, we have the Petitioner's andl I claims of the similarities, but this 
material lacks persuasiveness. 
A petitioner's burden of proof comprises both the initial burden of production, as well as the ultimate 
burden of persuasion. Matter ofY-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136, 1142 n.3 (BIA 1998); also see the definition 
6 
of burden of proof from Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019) (reflecting the burden of proof 
includes both the burden of production and the burden of persuasion). Satisfying the burden of 
persuasion means the filing party must establish the degree to which their arguments and evidence 
should persuade or convince USCIS that the requisite eligibility parameters have been met (i.e., the 
obligation to persuade the trier of fact of the truth of a proposition). Dir., Office of Workers' Comp. 
Programs, Dep't of Labor v. Greenwich Collieries, 512 U.S. 267,274 (1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not met that burden, and as a result, he has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2024 In Re: 35392583 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner -a scholar of Kyrgyz history and culture -requests classification under the 
employment-based, first preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must 
demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of 
their achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director found that the Petitioner 
met the requested category's evidentiary criteria. But the Director concluded that he did not 
demonstrate extraordinary ability in his field or his claimed intent to continue working in the field in 
the United States. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked evidence and that 
his recognition for his achievements in his field, in the aggregate, establish his extraordinary ability. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that, while he demonstrated his intent to continue working in his field in the United 
States, he has not established himself among that small percentage of scholars at the field's very top. 
We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a petitioner meets either evidentiary standard and the other statutory 
requirements, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) must then make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding USCTS' two-step analysis of 
extraordinary ability "consistent with the governing statute and regulation"); see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Kyrgyzstani native and citizen, earned a bachelor's degree in 
history from a university in his home country. Turkish universities later awarded him a master's 
degree in history and a doctorate in general Turkish history. 
Besides presenting 42 papers at international conferences, the Petitioner states that between 2009 and 
2023, he wrote eight books and 35 articles regarding Central Asian history and culture. He has worked 
as: a proofreader, assistant editor, and editor at academic journals; an international political expert at 
a Turkish "think-tank;" and a partner/manager at an online magazine about Central Asian life and 
culture. The Petitioner is proficient in nine living and two ancient Turkish languages. From 2016 to 
201 7, he and four others translated, from the K r z to Turkish language, the 
_____________________ _ The final product consisted of three 
volumes totaling more than 3,000 pages, representing first complete translation into 
Turkish. 
The Petitioner states that, in the United States, he seeks to continue working in his field for a university, 
institution, or government. He specifically plans to continue comparing the language, history, 
and 
culture of the Kyrgyz and American Navajo peoples. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt ofa major internationally 
recognized award. He therefore has to meet at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). The record supports the Director's findings that he satisfied three of the 
requirements: published material about him and his work in the field; his participation as a judge of 
others' work in the field; and his authorship of scholarly articles in his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), (iv), (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he met another evidentiary criterion regarding receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). But, because he has already met the minimum evidentiary requirements, we need 
not determine whether he satisfied another. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate 
decisions). 
We first review the Director's findings regarding the Petitioner's intent to continue working in his 
field in the United States. 
B. Intent to Continue Working in the Field 
To qualify for the 
requested immigrant visa category, a noncitizen must demonstrate that they "seek[] 
to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability." Section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. Unlike other immigrant visa categories, the requested classification 
requires no job offer or certification from the U.S. Department of Labor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). But 
"clear evidence" must establish that, upon U.S. immigration, petitioners would continue to work in 
their fields. Id. Such evidence may include: 
• Letters from prospective employers; 
• Proof of "pre-arranged commitments," like contracts; or 
• Noncitizens' statements detailing their plans to continue their work in the United States. 
Id. 
In response to the Director's request for additional evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided a letter 
from a research colleague stating that he would fund the Petitioner's work in the United States.2 The 
Petitioner also submitted a letter from the U.S. online magazine that previously employed him as 
partner/manager, offering him a job as director of editorial features. 
We disagree with the Director's reasons for discounting the evidence in the Petitioner's RFE response. 
But we agree that the materials do not demonstrate his intent to continue working in his field in the 
United States. 
A petitioner must demonstrate eligibility "at the time of filing the benefit request." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b)(1 ). The Petitioner filed his petition in May 2024. Evidence does not establish his receipt 
of his colleague's funding offer or the online magazine's job offer before the petition's filing date. 
The magazine's job-offer letter bears a June 2024 date, while the colleague confirmed his funding 
offer in a letter dated the following month. Thus, the evidence in the RFE response does not 
demonstrate the Petitioner's intent to continue working in his field in the United States at the time of 
the petition's filing. 
The only remaining evidence of the Petitioner's intent to continue working in his field in the United 
States is his statement included in the initial filing. Such a statement suffices if it "detail[ s] plans on 
how [the petitioner] intends to continue [their] work in the United States." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
The Petitioner stated that he wants: 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner states his acceptance of this funding offer. 
3 
to continue to use [his] historical knowledge, translation/interpretation, editing skills, 
and international relations expert experience in the United States by working in a 
university, government job, or institution. As a researcher, [he] would like to continue 
to focus [his] writing on the history, and culture of Central Asian nations. 
The Petitioner also stated his intent, in the United States, to continue researching "Kyrgyz-Native 
American commonalities" and to translate the first book he co-authored on this topic from Kyrgyz to 
English. He said he further wants "to establish cultural bridges between the Kyrgyz and Navajos." 
He states that he and the book's other co-authors have worked with Kyrgyzstani government officials 
to plan joint fairs and promotions for Kyrgyz and Navajo people. 
We find that the Petitioner's statement sufficiently details his U.S. work plans. Thus, he has 
demonstrated his intent to continue working in his field in the United States at the time ofthe petition's 
filing. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
We next review the Director's final merits determination. 
C. Final Merits Determination 
At this adjudicatory stage, petitioners must demonstrate that they have sustained national or 
international acclaim and that their achievements have been recognized in their fields to an extent 
placing them among the small percentage who have risen to the fields' very top. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B)(2). 
In a final merits determination, USCIS considers "any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even 
if such evidence does not fit one of the ... regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable 
evidence." Id. A petitioner must explain the evidence's significance and how it demonstrates their 
achievement ofsustained national or international acclaim or recognition in their field. Id. A petition's 
approval or denial depends on the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
The Director found insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's favorable comparisons to others at his 
field's top and his purported acclaim. The Director stated: 
While you need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that you have 
sustained national or international acclaim and are among the small percentage at the 
very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that "the sum of his achievements and recognition" demonstrate 
his extraordinary ability in his field. He cites the following achievements: 
1. The Number of Citations to the Petitioner's Research 
The 
Petitioner provides evidence that, out of six leading scholars in his field, his research articles have 
received the fourth most citations. 
4 
2. The Petitioner's Selection to Translate the ____ But he submitted this evidence on appeal. If a petitioner received notice and a reasonable opportunity 
to provide evidence before a petition's denial, we generally disregard the evidence if later submitted 
on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(11) (requiring submission of all requested evidence together at 
one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (declining to consider new evidence 
submitted on appeal where "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a 
reasonable opportunity to provide it for the record before the denial"). 
The Director's RFE requested evidence that the Petitioner's articles "ha[ve] been widely cited" and 
"[r]esults from scholarly literature search websites." The Petitioner submitted these requested 
materials only on appeal and does not claim their unavailability at the time of his RFE response. We 
therefore decline to consider the new evidence on appeal. 
The record does not otherwise compare the Petitioner's citations to those of leading scholars in his 
field. He therefore has not documented this purported achievement. 
Even if we considered the Petitioner's evidence on appeal, it would not establish the claimed citation­
related achievement. The evidence shows that the list of the top six scholars in the Petitioner's field 
represents only one researcher's opinion. Others might rank different scholars in the field above the 
Petitioner. Also, the other scholars' work might have generated more citations than the Petitioner's 
work. Thus, the record does not establish that his research articles have received the fourth most 
citations among the top six scholars in his field. See section 20l(b)(l)(A) of the Act (requiring 
"extensive documentation" of recognized achievements). 
The Petitioner and four others began translating the from Kyrgyz to Turkish in 2016. 
The record establishes the ____________________ describing their 
history and traditions. In 2013, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural 
Organization added the In 
2017, Kyrgyzstan's then prime minister publicly described the as "[t]he climax of our 
heritage, and the pride of our nation." 
Based on this information, the Petitioner states: 
We can infer that [his] selection as one of five translators on a work of such public 
interest indicates that he is one of the few who have been recognized for having a 
superior understanding of Kyrgyz history and culture, in which is rooted. 
We decline to make that inference. The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof. See Matter ofChawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. He submitted a letter from a deputy executive officer of Kyrgyzstan stating 
that, as the country's former consulate general in Turkey, the officer "initiated" theL__Jtranslation 
project. But the record does not indicate who selected the project's five translators or on what basis. 
The Petitioner therefore has not sufficiently demonstrated that his selection to translate the I I 
gained him significant recognition or acclaim in his field. See section 201 (b)(1 )(A) of the Act 
(requiring "extensive documentation" of recognized achievements). 
5 
3. The Petitioner's Receipt of Kyrgyzstan's "Certificate of Gratitude" 
The Petitioner contends that his 2017 receipt of Kyrgyzstan's "certificate of gratitude" for his work 
on the I Itranslation "points toward the national acclaim and recognition that he has received 
as a scholar ofKyrgyz history and culture." The record demonstrates that Kyrgyzstan's then president 
personally presented the certificate to the Petitioner at a ceremony before hundreds ofpeople in Turkey 
gathered for the dedication of a monument to the I I Kyrgyzstan's deputy executive officer 
stated that the country does not award such certificates every year and that recipients are "individuals 
who have honored the nation with a service that promotes Kyrgyz culture or who have enhanced the 
country's prestige." 
The Petitioner's receipt of the certificate does not demonstrate his place among the small percentage 
at his field's top. A letter from another translator on thel !project states that all five of the 
project's translators received Kyrgyzstani certificates of gratitude. But the record does not establish 
that the project's other translators rank among the field's top scholars. Thus, the Petitioner's receipt 
ofthe same certificate does not establish his place among the small percentage ofscholars at his field's 
top. 
4. The Petitioner's Newspaper Interview 
The 
Petitioner provided a copy ofan 2024 interview with him in Kyrgyzstan's leading education 
and science newspaper. The newspaper's front page includes a photograph of the Petitioner, while 
the interview appears on page 7. 
The record shows that Kyrgyzstan's education and science ministry established the weekly newspaper 
in 1993 and distributes it to all public schools, libraries, and universities in the country. A 2017 survey 
ranked the publication's circulation as the fifth largest among Kyrgyzstani newspapers. The Petitioner 
states: "That [he] was interviewed by a major newspaper, whose special remit is education and 
science, and that the interview was so prominently featured, strongly suggests a high degree of 
recognition in the field." 
We agree that the Petitioner's newspaper interview reflects recognition of his achievements in his 
field. But he has not demonstrated that this recognition propels him to a place among the small 
percentage of scholars at his field's top. For example, the record does not indicate whether the 
newspaper has featured other scholars in his field. 
The Petitioner also submitted letters from other researchers in his field. Most of the letters repeat the 
Petitioner's accomplishments and make general assertions about him and his work. One letter cites 
his purported "ground-breaking" research on Kyrgyz-Mongol relations and the parallels between the 
Navajo and Kyrgyz cultures. The record, however, lacks sufficient detail and explanation regarding 
the significance of this research to the field and the Petitioner's roles in exploring these topics. 
For noncitizens with extraordinary ability, Congress intended to set "a very high standard." Proposed 
Rule for Employment-Based Immigrants, 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Congress 
reserved this immigrant visa category "for that small percentage of [ noncitizens] who have risen to the 
very top of their field of endeavor." Id. 
6 
The record identifies the Petitioner as an accomplished and versatile Kyrgyz scholar who has received 
acclaim and recognition in his field. But his evidence, even in the aggregate, does not sufficiently 
place him among the small percentage of scholars at his field's very top. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 386 
(upholding USCIS' final merits determination that a petitioner "was not 'extraordinary' but merely 
very good"). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner demonstrated his intent to continue working in his field in the United States. But he 
has not established his claimed extraordinary ability in the field. We will therefore affirm the petition's 
denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2024 In Re: 35160496 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a software developer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked in the specialty of 3D digital scanning since 1998. He worked for several 
companies in South Korea, most recently as the chief technical officer (CTO) ofl Ia company that 
manufactures dental scanning equipment. The Petitioner last entered the United States in June 2023 as 
an E-2 nonimmigrant treaty investor, working for I IU.S. subsidiary. He currently holds L-lA 
nonimmigrant status, working asl IUSA's CTO. 
The Petitioner did not claim to have received a major, internationally recognized award. He claims to 
have satisfied five of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had submitted sufficient 
evidence to satisfy the criteria pertaining to awards, published material, and leading or critical roles. 
But the Director concluded in a final merits determination that this evidence does not demonstrate that 
the Petitioner has reached the top ofhis field and achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of nationally recognized awards, the publication 
of articles about the Petitioner, but the Director concluded that the related evidence does not show that 
the Petitioner has reached the top of his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he met the two additional claimed criteria that the Director 
did not grant, relating to contributions and remuneration, and that the evidence in the record is 
sufficient to show that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim at the top 
of his field. 
We will not focus on individual regulatory criteria, because the Director concluded that the Petitioner 
had satisfied three ofthem. We will consider whether the record as a whole establishes the Petitioner's 
sustained national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
2 
In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of 
the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary 
ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has 
established eligibility. 
The Petitioner won awards for his work in 3D modeling software before he began working for _ 
in 201 7. He is named on numerous patents and patent applications filed in various countries since 
2006, some of them specific to digital dentistry, others relating to other aspects of 3D modeling. 
Responding to a request for evidence, the Petitioner cited relevant passages in the USCIS Policy 
Manual: "[E]vidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant 
attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person's original contribution to 
the field." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The same 
document also indicates that "employment ... with leading institutions in the field ... can be a positive 
factor toward demonstrating that the person is among the small percentage at the top of the field." Id. 
at F.2(B)(2). 
The cited passages are relevant because the record indicates that ____________ 
are popular, widely used, and highly regarded in the field of dentistry, and that the Petitioner led the 
development of those devices. An article in Han ung Job & Joy, an offshoot publication of Korea 
Economic Daily, indicated that the "quickly became a game changer in the global 
digital dentistry market," and thatl I"is currently recognized as the second largest[ I 
company in the world." The I lwon a Best of Class Technology Award froml I _____ in 2021. 
The Director concluded that "[t]he petitioner did not provide independent and objective evidence to 
demonstrate that the invention( s) and technology is being widely utilized widely by others in the 
petitioner's field-reaching far beyond the petitioner's employer(s)." 
The technology in question is patented, which grants the patent holder exclusive rights to the 
technology. We would not expect rival companies to use the same technology unless the patent holder 
licensed it for that purpose. A patent holder has the discretion to keep its patented technology to itself 
in order to gain market advantage, which appears to be the case here. 
Materials in the record indicate that holds more than a 20% share of the global 
market. This information indicates significant commercialization of the Petitioner's work -not 
through its adoption by competitors, but through sales amounting to a substantial proportion of the 
market for such products. The record shows that when was sold for about $2 billion 
in 2022, a media report about the acquisition called! l"the world's No. 1 _______ 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
I Some of the published materials in the record appear to be self-promotional, such as an article about 
I products that appeared in Dentistry, a publication that describes its purpose as "[c ]onnecting 
dental brands with the UK dental profession." But other materials represent objective trade media 
coverage, indicating that the Petitioner has been recognized as being largely responsible for the 
creation of highly successful products. 
Third-party coverage and discussion of I I products heavily features the Petitioner, both 
identifying him by name and discussing his role as I ICTO and as a key developer of the 
company's products. Crucially, this coverage extends beyond I I own press releases and 
"sponsored" articles. Objective media coverage features the Petitioner as, in effect, the "face" of 
popular and highly-regarded products in the field of digital dentistry. 
The record as a whole supports the conclusion that the Petitioner has met his burden of proof by a 
preponderance of the evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has submitted sufficient evidence to establish eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. We will therefore sustain the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 9, 2024 In Re: 34426556 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a gymnastics coach who seeks first preference immigrant classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Beneficiary qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient 
of a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who 
satisfied at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). Namely, 
the Petitioner claimed that he met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)-(v) and (viii) and the 
Director determined that he did not meet any of these criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we find that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and we will therefore 
withdraw the Director's adverse determination on that issue pursuant to our discussion below. 
However, we will dismiss the appeal because the Petitioner did not establish that he meets the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iii), and (v), and, therefore, did not meet the initial three required criteria. 
The Petitioner also maintains on appeal that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
which relates to a leading or critical role in a distinguished organization. 1 However, the Petitioner 
would not establish that he met three out often criteria even ifhe established that he meets the elements 
of this criterion As such, we need not address this criterion, nor do we need to provide the type of 
1 The Petitioner did not, either at the time of filing or subsequently , in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), include the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) as part of his eligibility claim. In the denial, however, the 
Director addressed this criterion, along with the four specifically claimed criteria, as part of the Petitioner 's claim as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we will reserve 
these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they 
reach). 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or internationa l acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a former gymnast who transitioned to a career as a gymnastics coach after completing 
a coaching program inl Iin 2003. The Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence 
to show that he received a major, internationally recognized award. He must therefore provide 
evidence showing that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner claims that he meets the elements of five of these 
criteria, which are summarized below: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements ; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
2 
• (viii), Performance m a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments. 
A. Criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the claimed criteria. We find, 
however, that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence that he met the requirements of the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires evidence that the Petitioner participated as a judge over 
the work of others in his field. 
Here, the record contains evidence, such as a document titled ____________ 
from the Tokyo Olympics that took place in July 2021. The Petitioner's name was listed as one of the 
I I on the "Competition Officials" page of the results book. 
The record also contains the Petitioner's photo ID showing him as I I 
Judge" at the 2014 Asian Championships. Therefore, contrary to the Director's determination, we 
find that the record contains sufficient evidence that the Petitioner participated as a judge over the 
work of others in his field, thereby meeting all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As such, we will withdraw the Director's adverse determination regarding this criterion. See 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l ), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
B. Remaining Criteria 
Notwithstanding our favorable determination concerning the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
the record supports the Director's adverse findings regarding the remaining criteria, which we will 
address below with the exception of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), as explained earlier. 
First, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in 
professional associations. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is or was a member 
in an association in his field, that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, 
and that this requirement is judged by national or international experts in the field. 
In support of the initial petition, the Petitioner provided a translated letter and the corresponding 
foreign original from the president of the Gymnastics Federation ofl I However, the record 
lacks a translator's certification attesting to the completeness and accuracy of this translation or the 
competency of the translator to translate from the foreign language into English, as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). As such, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the 
translated material is accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided a letter with a certified English translation 
from the General Secretary of the Kazakhstan Gymnastics Federation (KGF). The letter refers to the 
Petitioner's claimed position as president ofthe 
but it does not specifically name an association in which the Petitioner is claimed to have held the 
listed position or adequately clarify that this committee is part of the KGF. Although the Petitioner 
provided a printout from the website of the KGF, the printout includes only the history and general 
information about the federation, but does not include information about the federation's members, 
other than its president; the Petitioner offered no formal documents from the federation identifying 
3 
him as a member. While we recognize an article in the record that was published in 
eng.gymnovosti.com in 2018 and refers to the Petitioner as president of the 
KGF, as previously noted, it is unclear why the Petitioner has not provided primary evidence, such as 
documents generated by the KGF, as proof of his claimed membership. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(2)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner again highlights his claimed membership in KGF and his role as president 
of the ___________________ However, as discussed above, the record 
lacks sufficient evidence of the Petitioner's membership and claimed role, nor does it show that 
outstanding achievements was a prerequisite for membership. 
The record also contains the Petitioner's USA Gymnastics membership cards2 as well as USA 
Gymnastics membership terms and conditions, and the Petitioner's corresponding membership 
requirements scorecard showing that he passed a background check and several fundamental safety 
trammg courses. The USA Gymnastics terms and conditions lists specific requirements for 
competitive coach members. Such requirements include completion of a "SafeSport Core/Refresher" 
course as well items listed on the Petitioner's requirements scorecard, which shows that he has met 
the listed requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner continues to highlight his membership in USA Gymnastics, noting that the 
organization functions as the governing body for gymnastics in the United States. However, despite 
providing sufficient evidence showing that he satisfied the organization's membership requirements 
for competitive coaches, he offers no evidence that his membership in that organization is conditional 
upon a showing of his outstanding achievements, as required to satisfy the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). And although the Petitioner also claims that he is a member of the U.S. 
Gymnastics Federation of Judges ("USAJ") as well as the Federation International de Gymnastique 
("FIG"), the record does not contain sufficient evidence corroborating his claimed membership in 
either organization. Regarding his affiliation with the latter, the Petitioner provided printouts from 
FIG's website, including a page that offers general information about FIG and one page listing the 
Petitioner as a judge in one ofits gymnastics events. The Petitioner did not, however, provide evidence 
that FIG membership is a prerequisite for participating as a judge at one of its events; nor does the 
record include evidence ofFIG's membership requirements. As such, even ifthe Petitioner was a FIG 
member, he has not demonstrated that outstanding achievements is a prerequisite for the membership. 
Likewise, the Petitioner has not provided evidence establishing USAJ' s membership requirements, 
nor has he established that he has been a member of USAJ. And although the Petitioner claims on 
appeal that USAJ requires "deep understanding ofthe sport, expertise in judging, and adherence to the 
highest standards of fairness and professionalism," he has not provided evidence to show that these 
are official criteria of USAJ and if so, that such criteria satisfy the outstanding achievements element 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Given the evidentiary deficiencies discussed above, the Petitioner has not overcome the Director's 
adverse determination regarding this criterion. 
2 The record contains two membership cards -one with an expiration date ofJuly 31, 2023, and the other with an expiration 
date of July 31, 2024. It therefore appears likely that the Petitioner was a member in July 2023, when this petition was 
filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (requiring proof of eligibility at the time of filing). 
4 
Next, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which requires evidence of published 
material about the Petitioner in professional or major trade publications or other major media and 
states that such evidence "shall include the title, date, and author of the material." In denying the 
petition, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of articles from various websites but 
determined that there was insufficient evidence that the articles were published in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. The Director also named several articles that did not 
list an author or that were not substantially about the Petitioner. 
On appeal, the Petitioner mentions a previously submitted article published in kazprvada.kz in 2015 
and a 2016 article published in penzanews.ru. While the latter mentions the Petitioner as the coach of 
four Kazakhstani gymnasts, the 2015 article made no mention ofthe Petitioner at all, and neither article 
lists an author nor is either about the Petitioner. Although the Petitioner also claims that "the 
Kazakhstan sports portal mentioned him [the Petitioner] in 2013," he does not provide the name of a 
specific article or specify the sports portal, nor does the record include a 2013 article matching the 
Petitioner's description. The initial submissions also included an article from penza-press.ru, which 
did not include either a date or an author, and two articles from 2018 -one about an _____ 
championship listing the Petitioner among the judges in the event and the other about a male gymnast's 
return to competitive gymnastics. While the latter 2018 article captures the Petitioner's reaction to an 
athlete's return to competitive gymnastics, none of these articles are about the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner contends that it is not uncommon for online articles to be published without citing an 
author. However, the Petitioner must satisfy all elements of this criterion. As previously stated, the 
specific regulatory language states that any submitted articles "shall include the title, date, and author 
of the material." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) ( emphasis added). Thus, any article submitted without 
the required information is not sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Although in response to the RFE the Petitioner provided additional articles along with rankings data 
for the respective publications, the dates of the articles show that they were published in 2024. 
Because this petition was filed in July 2023 and the regulations require each petitioner to establish 
eligibility at the time of filing, articles that were published after this petition's filing, regardless of 
their content, would not be sufficient to establish eligibility. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b)(1 ). 
Given the evidentiary deficiencies discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the 
articles he submitted, either in response to the RFE or at the time of filing, satisfy all elements of the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Lastly, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner made an original contribution of major significance. 
Here, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted recommendation letters commending 
him for his ability and skillset and further recognized that support letters can be instrumental in 
discussing the nature ofa contribution. The Director determined, however, that the Petitioner provided 
letters that did not specify an original contribution or discuss how the Petitioner contributed in a way 
that resulted in major significance in the field of gymnastics coaching. 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to a previously submitted letter from Mr.I land lists Mr. 
I Iposition title as The 
Petitioner contends that Mr. __letter "underscores the [P]etitioner' s exceptional experience as 
an international judge" and supports the Petitioner's claim that he has made "significant impact as a 
coach in Kazakhstan and his current leadership role atl I 
in the United States." The Petitioner also highlights the recommendation letter from Mr. I I I Pointing out that the letter discusses the Petitioner's "notable success" in developing 
talented gymnasts who go on to compete at "the highest levels." However, neither the Petitioner's 
professional experience nor his success in the field ofcoaching gymnastics, factors that are highlighted 
in these recommendation letters, satisfies the original contribution element of this criterion. 
Regardless, the Petitioner claims that he has developed "innovative training techniques and coaching 
philosophy" that have resulted in fewer injuries and have "propelled teams and individuals to victory." 
The Petitioner broadly references "objective documentary evidence" in the record, such as "support 
letters from experts," as proof of his claim that "people throughout the field currently consider [his] 
work important" and ofmajor significance. The Petitioner does not, however, point to a specific letter 
or expert testimony that supports his claims. And we note that most of the recommendation letters in 
the record are from the parents of children the Petitioner had previously coached and who offered 
general praise about the Petitioner's coaching style. For instance, one parent's letter remarked on the 
Petitioner's "comprehensive approach to training athletes" while another discussed the Petitioner's 
"patience and humor" in overcoming his child's fear. Although there are also two letters from former 
students who discussed the Petitioner's coaching method, the record contains no evidence that the 
method was an original contribution or that the contribution, even if original, is of major significance 
in the field of gymnastics coaching. 
In sum, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has made an original contribution that is of major 
significance in his field, and he therefore has not satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
C. Reserved Issues 
As previously noted, the Petitioner also asserts that he meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which relates to a petitioner's performance in a leading or critical role for 
a distinguished organization. However, given the deficiencies described above, we need not determine 
whether the Petitioner meets the requirements of this criterion, and we will reserve this issue. See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. The 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4699068 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[n] martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the initial evidentiary requirements. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a martial artist who at the time of filing was serving as the~I --~I of the D 
Regional Federation of Thai Boxing in Ukraine. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets 
the following evidentiary criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i),(iii), published material at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)(viii). After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he 
satisfies at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has received numerous awards in the field of kickboxing. For 
example, it establishes that in thee=] cate or he received first place at the 2013 World Association 
of Kickboxing Organizations (W AKO Cu and second place at the 2014 World 
Kickboxin Federation held in~_~and the 2016 Amateur/Pro-am~!--~ 
.__ ________ .....,...... respectively. It farther shows that the I I Regional Administration of 
Sport awarded him first place in th~ I category at the Tournament of Thaiboxing I I I I and that he won first place in the I I category at the Ukrainian Cup of 
Kickboxing. 
2 
As it relates to showing that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence 
in his field, the Petitioner provides documents and highlights criteria within them for the awards he 
has received.1 For example, he provides the "WAKO General Rules Chapter 1," in which he identifies 
the section "Art. 4.1 Championship Trophies." This section lists the awards to be famished at 
"World/Continental Championships" and provides that they will be granted as follows: "1st place= 3 
pts. 2nd placed= 2 pts. [sic] 3rd place= 1 pt." In the World Kickboxing Federation Official Amateur 
Rulebook, the Petitioner flags section "2.3.7. Team Fights" as well as the "Kickboxing Scoring 
Criteria" and 'Thai Boxing Scoring Criteria" which establish how points are awarded and how team 
wins are determined. While these materials, and the others in the record, provide the general criteria 
for the awards he has received, they do not demonstrate the national or international significance of 
the awards won. 2 The record lacks other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of martial arts as required. The Petitioner, 
therefore, has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish his eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as the record contains published material 
about him in print and online media sources including the title, date and author, as well as, "whenever 
available ... information regarding the Alexa Rank, the estimated daily and monthly revenues, and the 
estimated website value of online sources of publications." 
The Petitioner provides several articles that are about him and relate to his work. For example, he 
submits one titled .__~-----------~---~--' published in the newspaper Simya 
i Dim which includes the date and author of the materials, as required. He also includes an article 
titled '.__ _____________ _. published in Martial Arts. Keys to Excellence, in which 
he answers a series of questions about the sport ofl I In addition, the record includes articles 
published online at.__ _____ __. and I I as well as in the newspaper Ljubart 
Chronicles that are also about the Petitioner and relate to his work as a martial artist. 
The Petitioner also provides print or online circulation statistics for each of the abovementioned 
publications or websites. However, he does not submit comparative evidence establishing that these 
statistics are high relative to other circulation statistics, or otherwise show that the newspapers or 
websites are professional or major trade publications. 3 We farther note that, with the exception of the 
previously mentioned Simya i Dim article, the materials do not include the name of the author as 
required by the criterion. 
1 While we only discuss a sampling of the documents here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting relevant considerations in determining if the 
award or prize meets this criterion, among others, are its national or international significance in the field.) 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 7. 
3 
In addition to the abovementioned articles, the record also includes an article '.__ ________ _. 
'-------,-----~ which focuses on the recent success of "two representatives of the Fight Club 
Pitbull" and their win at a recent competition, but only briefly mentions the Petitioner. A second 
article 1 tis not about the Petitioner, but rather summarized all of the 
fights taking place during the amateur I I competition, of which one involved the Petitioner. 
Articles that are not about the Petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor.) Further, we note that the first article does not include an 
author, as required. Moreover, while the Petitioner includes online circulation statistics for the 
websites on which these articles appeared, he does not establish that these sites are major media or 
professional or major trade publications. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. Here the Petitioner 
asserts eligibility through his participation as "a professional referee in I . ~ at regi~ 
national, and international championships. He provides a copy of his credentials for the 2016L_J 
Edition World I !Championship and photographs of himself at this event. The Petitioner also 
includes a letter from I l executive vice president of legal and international affairs at the 
,....._ _______ .....-(WMF) and a certificate from the WMF identifying him as an "International 
Referee & Judge C Class" and confirming his completion of the "Referees and Judges Course" during 
this championship. Finally, he provides his work schedules as a referee for the 2015 "Championship 
in Kickboxing, WKP A."4 
Here the evidence supports the Petitioner's assertion that he has served as a professional referee at 
numerous martial arts events. The WMF certificate establishes his qualifications as such and confirms 
that he completed the "referees and judges course" during the 2016 c=]Edition World I I 
Championship. His credentials for this event clearly identify him as a coach and referee for this event, 
and the photographs are sufficient to demonstrate that he participated in that role. I Is letter, 
provided by the Petitioner as evidence of his qualification as a referee, also confirms that she saw him 
act in this role, 5 and his work schedules for the 2015 Kickboxing Championship confirm that he 
worked as a referee for numerous fights during that event. 
However, the Petitioner does not provide a description of his duties as a referee to demonstrate whether 
they involve evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules 
4 The Petitioner does not provide the full name of this organization. 
5 While I I indicates that she was "pleased to see [the Petitioner] as an International Judge and Referee at this 
event," this is discrepant with the Petitioner's own representation of his role at this event in the initial petition. Moreover, 
as noted in the brief accompanying the initial petition, the Petitioner provides this letter to demonstrate his certification as 
a referee. 
4 
of a match and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Further, the record lacks other evidence, such as 
official competition rules for either event, showing that serving as a referee in this instance equates to 
participating as a 'judge" of the work of others. 6 Without farther documentation, such as evidence 
that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner at these events, the 
evidence regarding serving as a referee at martial arts events is insufficient to meet this criterion. 7 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the three criteria relating to prizes or 
awards, published material, and judging. Although the Petitioner also claims to satisfy an additional 
criterion related to leading or critical role on appeal, we need not reach this issue. We reserve it as he 
cannot meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L­
A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
6 While the Petitioner 1,rovides a document titled ~-------' it does not describe the duties ofreferees and 
judges participating inl , I sanctioned events. 
7 We note that the record includes a copy of the "Official Amateur Rulebook" rrom the World Kickboxing Federation. 
which indicates that judges are responsible for scoring matches and referees mainly serve to enforce rules ( sections 2.1.14 
and 2.1.15.) The record does not include similar evidence regarding the WMF or the WKPA, the associations for which 
the evidence establishes that the Petitioner served as a referee. 
5 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5756471 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violinist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a violinist who performs as a soloist and with several ensembles in the~I ---~ 
metropolitan area. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of these evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others in the same field and display of her work in the field at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Petitioner submitted copies of programs for her performances 
at concerts and recitals and therefore we agree with the Director that she meets the display criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We also find sufficient evidence to establish that she has participated as 
a judge of the work of other musicians at thel I International Music Competition and therefore 
meets the evidentiary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, 
authorship of scholarly articles, and leading or critical roles. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in 
the record, we find that the evidence does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner initially claimed that she meets the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), but she has not pursued this claim on appeal. Accordingly, we will not further address the criterion here. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner states that she received the following awards and documented her receipt by submitting 
copies of her award certificates:4 
• First Prize E~n_s_e_m_b_l~e,~ ____ ___,Competition ~ 12017) 
• Second Prize - International Music I ~ I 2016) • First Prize, International Competition (no <lat~) 
• Second Prize, International Competition ~I ~--~2-0_1_4_) _~ 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. For the reasons 
discussed below, we agree with that determination. 
Counsel stated that the I I Competition is an international music competition open to 
instrumental, vocal, and ensemble performers and "split into five age groups ranging from ages 5 to 
33." Further, counsel indicated that the grand and first prize winners perform at the "Winner's 
Concert" at I I while second and third place winners perform at I I A letter 
from pianist I I states that they recruited the Petitioner to play in a quintet which won the 
first prize ensemble award at this competition and performed in th~ I as a 
reward for their placement. 
However, the record does not contain any additional information or supporting evidence regarding the 
.__ _____ ___,~ompetition to support the Petitioner's claim that her first prize award is considered 
a nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field of classical music. Without evidence 
of the entrance requirements and restrictions, information on the number of competitors in the 
Petitioner's age category, or evidence of the level ofrecognition associated with this award, we cannot 
find that the Petitioner has satisfied each element of the criterion. 
The I I International Competition I I is described in the record as a 
"distinguished international music competition," established in 2013, which attracts participants from 
throughout the United States and across the world. The Petitioner submitted a screenshot of the 
repertoire and competition rules from the I I website, as well as an advertisement for the 
competition that appeared in the Korean-language publication "Music Education Newspaper," which 
provided information and audition instructions for the c=Jannual competition held in 2015. The 
3 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
4 Subsequent to the fj)ing r the petition, the Petitioner provided a copy of a Certificate of Recognitiof framl I 
State Senator! recognizing her as "Best Teacher" at the I !International Music I inD 
2018. Because this evidence post-dates the filing of the petition, this evidence cannot be used to satisfy the awards criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l) (eligibility for the requested benefit must be established "at the 
time of filing" and "must continue through adjudication"). 
3 
advertisement indicates that the age limit for the competition is "pre-K up to age 32," and notes that 
grand and first prize winners are given the opportunity to perform at a winners' recital atl I D The Petitioner also submitted articles indicating that two previous I I winners, a Spanish 
trombonist and a Taiwanese soprano, had their respective results re orted in the media in their home 
countries. 5 Finally, she provided a screenshot from the website calendar indicating that 
the latestl I winners' concert had taken place at:_-=._-_-_-_-~---~in~2018. 
As noted, the Petitioner's first prize certificate froml I is not dated and is not supported by 
evidence indicating when she won this award and performed in the winners' concert. Further, the 
record does not contain official results or other evidence demonstrating the number of entrants in the 
competition or in the Petitioner's category in the year in which she won, or the total number of first 
prize awards given. Finally, the submitted statements indicate that entry to the competition was age­
restricted and limited to musicians aged 32 or younger, and not open to all musicians who may have 
been competitive for top prizes. 
In addition, although the supporting evidence indicates that the compet1t10n seeks and attracts 
participants from different countries, we note that showing a diverse pool of competitors, without 
more, does not establish the requisite recognition. While the evidence reflects that two otherl I 
winners received some media attention for their awards, the record lacks sufficient evidence verifying 
that prizes and awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner herselfreceived any recognition from outside 
the issuing organization. 
Regarding the I I International Competition LJ, where the Petitioner received a second 
prize award in 2014, the Petitioner submitted: an article titled.__ _____________ __. I I which appeared in the 2015 edition of a Korean-language magazine called 
Auditorium; an review titled '-------.----------.---~ which appeared in La Musica, a 
Korean-language marzine rublished by.__ _____ ~ the Petitioner's 0-1 employer and p.l..s..u.._a_, 
sponsor or partner of a screenshot of the "Rules and Repertoire" requirements from the L__J 
website; and a screenshot from thel I website indicating that anD winners' concert 
was on the recital hall's calendar forl 12017. 
While the articles in Auditorium and La Musica provide additional background information regrding I I l they do not support the Petitioner's claim that her second prize award at the inaugural 
competition in 2014 qualifies as a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. The article 
in Auditorium notes that is open to musicians from elementary school to age 33, is judged by 
music faculty at.__ __ ~' s best music schools, and indicates that Korean students did well in the 
competition's inaugural year. The article from La Musica indicates that the second annual I I 
competition held in 2015 drew over 200 video auditions from musicians in the United States, Korea 
and Europe. The article also highlights several Korean violinists who received first or grand prizes 
during the first twoD competitions, but does not mention the Petitioner or her second place finish 
in the 20141 ~ompetition. Further, while these articles confirm thatOdrew participants from 
5 The articles appeared on the websites caudetedigital.com and taiwantoday.tw. According to the submitted web traffic 
statistics from the website SimilarWeb, the former is ranked 14,576 in Spain and the latter ranked 21,835 in Taiwan. 
4 
outside the United States, the evidence does noes not establish that the competition awards nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes. 
As with the other awards the Petitioner received, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
regarding the official results, the number of competitors and prize winners in each age and instrument 
category, or other evidence related to the specific category in which she received an award. We cannot 
determine that the Petitioner's second prize award is a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence. 
Finally, with respect to her second prize finish at thel I International Music I I 
.__ __ ___,I, the submitted evidence is limited to a copy of the award certificate, and a brief description 
of the competition in counsel's cover letter in support of the petition. While the Petitioner submitted 
additional evidence related to her other awards in response to a request for evidence, she provided no 
further evidence related to this award and therefore did not meet her burden to establish that the award 
meets each element of this evidentiary criterion. 6 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner provided evidence that she authored four articles which appeared in La Musirn 
magazine, as well as an article that appeared in the Korean publication Mom & I, which she describes 
as a "lifestyle magazine." 
We note that, in fields outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in the field. 7 Each of the articles the Petitioner wrote for La Musica, is about a particular piece 
of classical music. For example, in the article 1.__ __________________ J' the 
Petitioner writes about Brahms' Piano Quartet No. 3 in C minor, discussing Brahms' inspiration for 
this work, the history of its composition, details regarding its publication, the mood of the piece, and 
some recommended recordings. The Petitioner did not establish that the intended audience of this and 
other articles published in La Musica is learned persons in the field of music. Further, the record does 
not contain evidence that La Musica, which appears to be published independently by~ 
.__ ____ __.I an artist management company, is a professional publication, a major trade publication, 
or other major medium. For similar reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her article for 
the lifestyle magazine Mom & I satisfies both elements of this evidentiary criterion. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director's determination that this criterion was not met. 
6 In addition, we note that the Petitioner's! laward certificate is datedl 12015, but the Petitioner also 
submitted certificates fromc=J indicating that she served as a judge at this event apn.uajly. Her judging certificates 
are datedLJ2015,02~201 7, ~18. If the competition is held inLJ it is unclear why her award 
certificate as a participant would be dated inL___J2015. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9 ( defining "learned" as "having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship"). 
5 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion because "she has performed the most leading roles 
a violinist can attain including as concertmaster, assistant concertmaster, principal second violin and 
as soloist for multiple distinguished organizations." 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 8 Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 9 A distinguished organization is one that is "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence."10 
On appeal, the Petitioner highlights her roles with the following organizations: 
• 
• 
• Philharmonic Orchestra (Principal Violin II) Ir------'--, 
.,__ ___ _.__C_la_,ssical Symphony Orchestra (Assistant Concertmaster and soloist) 
'-------' Quintet Ensemble (member) 
The Director determined that there was insufficient evidence that the Petitioner has held a leading or 
critical role with these or other organizations, but did not address whether the evidence demonstrated 
that she has worked with distinguished organizations or establishments. 
With respect to the Petitioner's role with thel ~hilharmonic, we note that her initial submission 
contained no mention or evidence related to this orchestra or her claimed leadership position within 
it. The Petitioner later provided a letter froml I the orchestra's president, who states that 
the Petitioner joined the I I Philharmonic in January 2016, noting fhat "she wf8 able to come in 
to perform and also coach her colleagues in both the violin sections."~---~ indicates that the 
Petitioner commenced her position as Principal Violin II in November 2017, and is responsible for 
leading her section. Finally, I I writes that "most recently" the Petitioner was nominated to 
the Board of Directors as a Trustee. The I I Philharmonic' s music director and conductor,! I I I states that the Petitioner "has played a critical and leading role" for the orchestra 
and "has been promoted to the principal position of the violin section." He also states that the 
Petitioner has been a member of the orchestra's board since May 2017, and notes that her "resources 
and ideas have proven essential to the growth of the organization." 
While the Petitioner's Principal Violin II position may be considered leading or critical to the 
orchestra, the record does not establish that thel !Philharmonic has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner provided a New York Times article from 1987 titled 'I I 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
9 Id. 
io Id. 
6 
.__ ____ ~t' published in th re ion section of the paper. The article discusses the 
history of the ensemble (which is based in._______,,. ___ ______. New Jersey), as it prepared to open its 50th 
anniversary season. The article also describes its membership noting that "[ d]octors, lawyers, 
housewives and saleswomen sit side by side in the orchestra with retired members of groups like the 
.__ ___ ~I Philharmonic." The article mentions previous guest artists and discusses the upcoming 
season. The Petitioner did not submit any other media coverage of the orchestra or other evidence in 
support of its claim that it currently enjoys a distinguished reputation. Based on the limited evidence, 
the organization seems to be noted for its longevity, which is not in and of itself a determining factor 
when considering whether a given organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation for 
purposes of this criterion. 
Regarding the I I Clasral Symphony Orchestra I I, the Petitioner submitted an 
undated letter from I , its conductor and musical director.I I states th~was 
founded in 2011 and states that it "has quickly been established as a cultural icon" inc===] and 
"around the world." He notes several instances in whilh the PeTioner was featured as a violin soloist, 
and mentions the Petitioner's role as director of the.__ __ _. s sister organization, the I I 
Classical Youth Orchestral ~-I I does not, however, indicate that the Petitioner is the 
assistant concertmaster for the I I although we note her role is mentioned in an I I 
program. The Petitioner also submitted several articles that describe leadership positions within an 
orchestra's violin section. While this evidence indicates that an assistant concertmaster position is 
generally considered leading or critical, the record does not establish that I I or its sister youth 
orchestra have a reputation that is recognized as distinguished. The Petitioner provided little 
independent evidence regarding these organizations and their standing among professional and youth 
orchestras. Counsel's assertion that thq ~ "has been highly praised by the press and public in 
the United States, Korea and German" is not substantiated. Assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
With respect to the Petitioner's membership in th~ I Quintet, the record does not establish 
that this small ensemble is an "organization or establishment" as required by the regulatory language. 
I I states that the Petitioner was a "key and essential member of the quintet" and mentions that 
the ensemble won first prize at the 20171 !Competition, but the record does not 
document any other performances by the quintet. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence 
demonstrating that this quintet enjoyed a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from I I music director of the ~I----~ 
Orchestra, who states that he recruited the Petitioner to join the orchestra as assistant concertmaster 
and promoted her to concertmaster in 2015, noting that this is a critical role which is essential to the 
orchestra's mission. The record also contains a program from a 2015 concert at f church ipl I 
New Jersey, which lists the Petitioner as concert master. However, other than~--~ts letter, the 
Petitioner did not submit any evidence related to this ensemble and therefore she did not establish that 
it has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the record contains evidence that she "performed leading roles that 
were incredibly valuable" to.__ _____ ~ I l~oque Charube] Hall, The I I 
International Summer Music Academy Orchestra, EnsembleLJ th~'----~ School of Music and 
7 
Art, and La Musirn magazine. The record includes a program indicating that the Petitioner performed 
a recital in thee=] Baroque Chamber Hall's debut concert series in 2012, but this evidence does not 
establish her leading or critical role with an "organization or establishment." Similarly, the Petitioner 
provided a program from a ~erformance of The II International Summer Music Academy 
Orchestra held in]~----~in 2006, in which sh~d as a member of the first violin section. 
The record does not reflect that this was a leading or critical role, nor does it contain any additional 
evidence regarding her performance with this ensemble. 
With reslect to Ensembl~ the Petitioner provided a letter from the ensemble's founder and artistic 
director,_ I who notes the Petitioner's "performance as an orchestral member" of the 
ensemble, but did not further discuss her role. As a result, the letter was insufficient to meet the 
Petitioner's burden to establish that her role for this ensemble was leading or critical. The record also 
contains a program from one EnsembleD performance in which the Petitioner is listed as a member 
of the violin section. However, the record lacks evidence ofEnsembleDs distinguished reputation 
to support counsel's assertion that the group "is making a tremendous impact in I I's classical 
music scene" and "redefining the role of the 21st century chamber orchestra." 
Finally, with respect to her roles with I l La Musica, and the I I School of 
Music and Art, the record does not contain letters from these organizations describing her roles and 
responsibilities and therefore does not support a finding that she meets this criterion based on those 
roles. The record reflects that the Petitioner has performed in concerts and recitals sponsored bye=] 
I f, in faculty concerts of I I and as I lof La Musica, but this evidence alone is 
insufficient to meet her burden to demonstrate how her role was leading or critical to these 
organizations. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence demonstrating that any of these 
organizations enjoy a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's 
determination that this criterion was not met. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the 
nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district 
court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. 
Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785 (E.D. La.), ajj'd, 248 F.3d 
1139 (5th Cir. 2001), cert. denied, 122 S.Ct. 51 (2001). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
8 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6222950 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a television presenter and actress, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that she has worked an actress, host, presenter, model, spokesperson, and 
journalist. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, artistic display of her work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). For example, the record 
reflects that the Petitioner modeled for fashion shows and performed as an actress in television soap 
operas. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the display criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets additional evidentiary criteria, discussed below. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on membership with the Union of Artists and 
Technicians for Entertainment Shows ~--------~ and Union of Professional Journalists 
ofi I. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in 
the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 1 
As it relates tol I the Petitioner provided the organization's bylaws from~---------
reflecting that applicants for membership must present an academic diploma in theater, choreography, 
or dramatic art; a "diploma or certificate corresponding to the professional qualifications of 2nd degree 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual ( AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
of actor"; or a "certificate of professional qualification provided by the union representative of 
professional categories." In addition, I ts website indicates that those who do not have 
training in schools recognized by the Ministry of Education (Brazil) can "request froml lthe 
issuance of the Training Certificate and, with it, their Professional Registration (DRT) from the 
Regional Superintendent of Labor and Employment" through these steps: 
■ Reading the Normative Ruling and the Criteria for Training Certification Dubbing Direction 
■ Collect printed material proving experience in the intended function (in chronological order) 
■ Gather printed proofs of courses, workshops, lectures, etc. in the area (with respective menus 
and workload) 
■ Complete here the Application and Professional Profile Questionnaire 
■ Deliver the folder of printed materials at the headquarters ofl I or interior dL.. __ ____. 
■ Pay 50% training exam fee 
■ Wait fo~ ts email contact to confirm and schedule an interview 
■ Attend the interview 
■ In case of approval, attend the Lecture on Legislation lasting 4 hours and pay the administrative 
fee (50%) 
■ Withdraw the Certificate of Qualification and schedule the delivery of the documentation of 
the Professional Registry at SRTE (Regional Superintendence of State Work) 
With respect to fulfilling the aforementioned requirements to become a member ofl I, the 
Petitioner has not shown that presenting an arts diploma or earning a professional certificate is 
tantamount to outstanding achievements as required by this regulatory criterion. Furthermore, she has 
not established that outstanding achievements for membership are judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
Regarding! I the Petitioner submitted a letter from the union president, screenshots from the 
organization's website, and its bylaws. The letter froml Is president and the website screenshots 
offer information about the organization's history and background, but this information does not 
indicate thatOrequires outstanding achievements of its members. According toc=Js bylaws, 
"[t]he following are requirements for affiliation as an effective member of the~- proof of 
professional registration in the legally competent body; II. -proof of habitual and paid professional 
exercise in the territorial base of the entity." The bylaws further state tha~umalism students may 
be admitted as members." In addition to not demonstrating that L_J requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, the aforementioned documentation does not show that admission to 
membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
not established that she fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As documentation for this criterion, the Petitioner presented articles and photographs in FT Show, 
Jornal Zero Hora, Jornal da Semana, Reinaldo Lourenco Summer Collection Catalogue, Nova Navia 
Catalog, and Marie Claire, but the date and author for the majority of these articles were not identified 
3 
as required by the language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, the submitted 
material just briefly mentions the Petitioner or only includes her photograph. 2 Articles that are not 
about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-
820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor). Furthermore, the record does not include evidence showing that the 
aforementioned publications constitute major media. Based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
As evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner submitted letters of support discussing her work in 
film, theater, television, advertising, fashion, and journalism. In order to meet this criterion, a 
petitioner must establish that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
For example, a petitioner may show that her contributions have been widely implemented throughout 
the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that she "has made original contributions of major significance in the field of 
Acting, Hosting, Presenting, and Spokesperson [sic]." She argues that evidence documenting her 
participation in various projects and the recommendation letters demonstrate her eligibility for this 
criterion. 3 As discussed below, these letters do not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does 
the record include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate the nature of specific 
"original" contributions that the Petitioner has made to the field that have been considered to be of 
"major significance." 
For example,.__ _______ a Brazilian film director and producer, stated that the Petitioner "is 
a reference in her profession in Brazil. I consider her a complete actress with extraordinary ability. 
She has already performed important works in the theater, television, dubbing and cinema industries, 
as well as having the background of presenter andjoumalist."I lforther indicated that the 
Petitioner performed in projects for his I I production company, but did not offer specific 
examples of how her work has risen to the level of contributions of major significance in the overall 
field. 4 
Likewise,! I another Brazilian film director and producer, asserted that the Petitioner's 
"experience in film, theater, television, and commercial work is vast, and her contributions to each 
project's success and originality have been substantial. These projects were made better because of 
her creative involvement." The record, however, does not include sufficient information or evidence 
2 For instance, the article in Jornal da Semana, entitled .__ _________ ___,' is about [ng)jsh designer I land does not mention the Petitioner. The Petitioner appears in a photograph wearing I 
fashions that accompanies the article. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 
demonstrating that the Petitioner's work has affected the field in a substantial way or otherwise 
constitutes original contributions of major significance in her field. 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that her authorship of '.__ __________ ___. also 
represents an artistic-related contribution in her field. Her evidence, however, does not show that this 
article has widely influenced other performing artists or has otherwise received attention at level 
indicative of a contribution of major significance in her field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field 
and her impact on subsequent work add value. 5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). Without sufficient 
information and evidence demonstrating that her work constitutes original contributions of major 
significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
As documentation for this criterion, the Petitioner initialll submitted a February 2018 letter from the 
chief executive officer ofl O • __, in I !offering her a part-time position 
as a media advertiser with compensation of "$10,000 U.S. for each campaign." The Petitioner, 
however, did not present comparative evidence demonstrating that this remuneration is high relative 
to other media advertisers working in the United States. 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted income statements from her company and accountant reflecting 
her earnings in Brazil from 2012 until 2016. To resoou~, to the Directpr's re uest for evidence she 
provided contracts with I I J J I J I I and I I for h~e_r_s-er-v-ic-e~s in Brazil. She also submitted~---~ 
"Guidelines for Advertising and Advertising Agencies" listing union recommended minimum wages 
for advertising and television work. The Petitioner, however, must demonstrate that she has earned a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration relative to others in her field and not just a salary that 
is above the union recommended minimum wage. 
The Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has earned a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in comparison with those performing similar services in the field. See Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus 
other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 
(9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to 
others in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) ( considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Without 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
documentation demonstrating that the Petitioner's compensation constituted a high salary or was 
significantly high in relation to others in the field, she has not established that she meets this regulatory 
criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
advertisements for I I , ~-----~ I I, I I As evidence for thig·. the Petironer plesented documentation indicating that she appeared in 
.__ _ __.I, I l and nd information about these companies. In addition, she provided media 
articles discussing television programs in which she appeared. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that 
"in the world of television and advertising, there are no tickets sold." The Petitioner farther states that 
she "provided information regarding the success of the companies for which she appeared in 
advertising, and several articles regarding the success of the television programs she appeared in." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) requires evidence of the Petitioner's commercial success, 
"as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk or video sales." While the Petitioner 
has appeared in advertisements for various companies and television programming, she has not shown 
that the success of those companies and television shows was attributable to her specific work as an 
actress, television host, or spokesperson. Furthermore, she has not demonstrated that her televised 
performances have attracted substantial audiences or that her advertising work generated significant 
sales. In order to meet this criterion, the evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office 
receipts reflect a petitioner's commercial successes relative to others involved in similar pursuits in 
the performing arts. 7 Here, the record does not include evidence identifying the Petitioner as having 
commercial successes relative to other performing artists. Nor is the evidence sufficient to 
demonstrate that the commercial successes of the aforementioned companies and television programs 
in which she appeared were mainly because of the Petitioner's work. 8 For the above reasons, the 
Petitioner has not established that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11-12. 
8 For example, with respect to the Brazilian soap operas in which she acted, the Petitioner has not shown that their television 
ratings or viewing audience increased significantly once she joined their acting cast. 
6 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2024 In Re: 35143376 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish his satisfaction of at least three initial evidentiary criteria. Specifically, the Director found 
the Petitioner met only one (display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii)) of the six claimed categories 
of evidence. We dismissed a subsequent appeal, determining that although he demonstrated eligibility 
for a second criterion (published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii)), the Petitioner did not meet 
any other criteria. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). See Matter ofCoelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that new evidence 
have the potential to change the outcome). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior 
decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record ofproceedings at the time ofthe decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may 
grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner does not state new facts and submit documentary evidence. Instead, the 
Petitioner contests the correctness of our prior decision, which will be addressed below. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner's motion to reopen does not meet the requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) and will 
be dismissed. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner contends we erred in determining that he did not fulfill two additional criteria. 
Specifically, the Petitioner asserts: 
The Original Petition did not argue [the Petitioner's] authorship of scholarly articles, 
however, evidence was provided for this category with the petition as well as the 
Response to the RFE [request for evidence] clearly meets the plain language of this 
category based on his published scholarly articles. Additionally, the appeal brief our 
office sent to the AAO also argues this category, however, the decision by the AAO, 
for some reason, does not even address it. We respectfully request that you read and 
review the evidence resubmitted with this submission that clearly demonstrates how 
[the Petitioner] fulfills this category. 
Both of the Petitioner's cover letters submitted in support of the initial petition and in response to the 
Director's RFE do not claim eligibility for the scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Specifically, the Petitioner's initial cover letter asserts his eligibility for the 
following criteria: awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), original contributions under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), display under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). In response to the 
Director's RFE, the Petitioner's accompanying cover letter discusses the same criteria, including the 
high salary criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). In fact, the cover letters provide an analysis 
specifying which evidence related to the applicable criteria. The letters make no mention, indication, 
or assertion of the Petitioner's eligibility for the scholarly articles criterion. The burden remains with 
the Petitioner to establish eligibility for the benefit rather than for the Director to guess or assume 
which eligibility requirements, if any, the evidence relates. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(1 ); Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
The Petitioner was put on notice and given reasonable opportunities, both at initial filing and in 
response to the Director's RFE, to claim eligibility for the scholarly articles criterion. Because the 
Petitioner did not argue eligibility for this criterion before the Director, we did not consider the 
Petitioner's eligibility claim for this issue for the first time on appeal. Generally, appellate bodies will 
not decide issues in the first instance or consider claims raised for the first time in an appeal. Nat 'l 
Rifle Ass'n ofAm. v. Vullo, No. 22-842, 2024 WL 2751216, at *10 n.5 (U.S. May 30, 2024). 
2 
In addition, the Petitioner asserts that under the awards criterion "the denial decision issued by the 
AAO claims that additional evidence is still required to fulfill this category" and provides an excerpt 
of our decision: 
For example, the decision issued by the AAO claims: "....the Petitioner did not provide 
sufficient documentation on the process of how individuals are selected and awarded 
the fellowship, and information regarding the individuals who determine who is 
selected for the fellowship. In addition, the record does not contain official results or 
other evidence demonstrating the number of entrants in the competition in the year he 
was awarded the fellowship. 
The Petitioner misconstrues our decision by only quoting a partial section, attempting to show that we 
required specific evidence to meet this criterion. The following is the actual discussion from our 
decision: 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that he was awarded the 2019 
IFellowship. The Petitioner further explained that theI Iart museum in the world with a 
mission to exhibit and preserve I I art and foster the artists who create it. In 
a letter by the executive director ofthe museum, the author explained that the 10 months 
fellowship is a program "made up ofseminars and mentorship services designed to help 
artists maximize their potential while also engaging in critical discourse." The 
Petitioner further states on appeal that this fellowship is an "internationally recognized 
prize since it has been frequently featured in major art publications such as Artnet, 
which attracts 6.2 million monthly website visitors." However, the record does not 
contain any additional information or supporting evidence regarding the competition 
to support the Petitioner's claim that his selection for this fellowship should be 
considered a nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field ofvisual art. 
For example, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient documentation on the process of 
how individuals are selected and awarded the fellowship, and information regarding 
the individuals who determine who is selected for the fellowship. In addition, the 
record does not contain official results or other evidence demonstrating the number of 
entrants in the competition in the year he was awarded the fellowship. 
The Petitioner also did not provide sufficient evidence of the level of recognition 
associated with this award. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that this fellowship is 
internationally recognized because it has been featured in major art publications. While 
the fellowship may receive media attention, the record lacks sufficient evidence 
verifying that this fellowship is a nationally or internationally recognized award for 
excellence in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner himself received any recognition 
from outside the issuing organization. Even if the media attention evidences national 
or international recognition, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to 
establish whether the award itself is nationally or internationally recognized and 
awarded for excellence in the field of visual arts. 
3 
Although the Petitioner does not discuss any other awards on appeal, a review of the 
awards discussed in the initial petition also do not contain sufficient evidence regarding 
the rules and selection process for granting the awards, official results for the entire 
competition, the number of competitors and prize winners in each age and category, or 
other evidence related to the specific category in which he received an award. Further, 
the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to determine that the Petitioner's 
awards for the noted competitions are a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence in the field of visual arts. 
As indicated above, we determined the Petitioner did not establish that his 2019 
____ Fellowship met this criterion because he did not provide sufficient documentation or 
offer additional information demonstrating the national or international recognition for excellence in 
the field. Moreover, we offered examples of evidence and information that may show the fellowship's 
eligibility but did not require the Petitioner to submit particular evidence, as asserted on motion. 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that he provided a list of names for 11 other artists who received the 
Fellowship in 2019. The record contains screenshots from I lorg 
indicating the names of past fellowship recipients since 2017. Although the Petitioner claims "[t]his 
vital evidence," the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of the documentation or explain 
how evidence of past recipients' names reflects the fellowship's national or international recognition 
for excellence in the field. Likewise, while the Petitioner asserts that applications are "by invitation 
only," the Petitioner did not show how this establishes the fellowship as a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award for excellence in the field. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner contends that he provided an article posted on advocate.com, which 
reported on an exhibition and indicated his receipt of the fellowship, and screenshots from artnet.com 
announcing an exhibition and indicating that "[t]he Fellows come from disparate backgrounds and 
engage in equally divergent art practices, and their artwork presents a multitude of positions within 
contemporary queer identity." However, the Petitioner did not establish how the evidence shows the 
national or international recognition for excellence in the field for the fellowship. The evidence, for 
instance, does not discuss or indicate the recognition of the fellowship in the field or otherwise reflect 
the field's view of the fellowship as a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how two articles mentioning the fellowship or fellows 
reflect the national or international recognition for excellence in the field. While the Petitioner claims 
that "the Ihas been featured in various major media outlets and major 
art publications," the issue for the criterion is the national or international recognition of the prize or 
award rather than the reputation or publicity of the awarding entity, institution, or organization. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the 
awards criterion. Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate his motion satisfies the requirements for 
a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. 103.5(a)(3), we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish new facts in order to reopen the proceeding. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner did not show how we erred in law or policy. 
4 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 10, 2024 In Re: 28839239 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted clear evidence that he is coming to 
the United States to continue work in the area of expertise. The matter is now before us on appeal 
under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) ( discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner earned a bachelor's degree at a prestigious musical academy in Russia. He claims "opera­
level vocal abilities," and he performs "both as a soloist and as a member and leader of a music band he 
personally founded." The Petitioner claims to have "personally invented a musical sub-genre" by being 
"the first and only widely known performer of rock and pop music" to play the 
typically associated with folk music. The Petitioner has been in the United States 
since March 2022, when he entered as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
When the Petitioner filed the appeal, he indicated that he would submit a brief within 30 days. That 
time has elapsed and the record does not contain any further submission from the Petitioner. 
Therefore, we will consider the record to be complete as it now stands, with the Petitioner's comments 
on the appeal form constituting the entire appeal. 
Before we tum to the specific eligibility criteria, we will address two general issues that the Director 
cited more than once in the decision, and which the Petitioner disputes on appeal. The first of these 
issues concerns the certification of translations. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) requires that a document containing a foreign language must 
include a full English language translation. The translator must certify that the translation is complete 
and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
At several points in the denial decision, the Director stated that the Petitioner "did not submit properly 
certified translations of ... documents" in the record. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "certified 
translations ... have been provided for every single foreign language document." 
The record shows a specific deficiency in the translation certifications, which the Petitioner did not 
correct when given the opportunity to do so. In the translation certifications in the record, the 
translators attested to their own competence, and certified that the translations are "true and accurate." 
But the translators did not certify that the translations are also "complete" as the regulation requires. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director advised the Petitioner that every foreign language 
"document must be accompanied by a full and complete English translation," emphasizing the word 
"complete" as shown. The translations submitted in response to the RFE were, as before, certified as 
"true and accurate" but not as "complete." The Petitioner did not address this deficiency in response 
2 
to the RFE or on appeal. We note that the record contains two translations of the same document (an 
award certificate from 2008) and the translations do not fully match one another. The Petitioner is 
responsible for resolving inconsistencies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing 
to where the truth lies. See Matter ofHo, 19 T&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). 
Below, we will discuss some of the translated materials, but we agree with the Director that the 
deficient translation certifications have compromised their evidentiary value. 
The second general issue that the Director raised in the denial notice concerns the quality of the 
submitted evidence. The Director stated that the Petitioner's "evidence includes digitized material, 
possibly scanned, and some altered with handwriting on the copies. This material is not reliable 
documentation, nor does it comply with the regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3)." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "every petitioner submits copies or scans rather than original 
documents." 
Photocopies are generally acceptable as supporting documentation, but the Director has discretion to 
request original documents. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(4), (5); 204.5(g)(l). In the RFE, the Director 
specifically requested "the originals of [certain] photographs" that the Petitioner had submitted, 
because "[i]t appears that some of the photographs may have been digitally altered." The Petitioner's 
response did not include the requested original photographs, or acknowledge the Director's request 
for them. 
The Petitioner's disregarding a request for original documentation is an adverse factor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(5). But more broadly, the Director's general assertion that unspecified documents were 
"altered with handwriting on the copies" is not specific enough. The Director did not say which 
documents were altered in this way, and did not say how the handwriting materially affected the 
contents of those documents. The Director also made a general reference to "self-manufactured 
evidence," without saying which documents appeared to have been created in that way. 
The Director's general references to altered and self-created documents, therefore, lack the specificity 
required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i), which requires the Director to "explain in writing the specific 
reasons for denial." 
Nevertheless, the denial does not rest solely or primarily on the above concerns. The Director also 
made specific determinations regarding particular claims and supporting evidence, which constitute 
sufficient grounds for denial of the petition. As we will discuss below, the Petitioner has not 
adequately addressed those grounds on appeal. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
3 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met any of the claimed criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner addresses only one of the criteria. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) calls for documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of guest passes to "prestigious event[ s] at the I I between 
2012 and 2016, showing his name, the word "ARTISTIC" in Russian, and descriptions of each 
event. The Petitioner submitted no evidence to show that he received these passes as prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field, and no evidence to establish that the guest passes are nationally 
or internationally recognized. 
In the denial notice, the Director stated: "a guest pass would not be considered a prize or award[, 
but] rather [as a] reservation to attend an event." On appeal, the Petitioner contends that "such 
invitations are only issued to [an] extraordinary few, equivalent to invitations to the White House 
in Washington, D.C. for a ... chosen few people." 
The Petitioner, however, has not submitted any documentary evidence to establish the 
circumstances under which he received the passes. Statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of 
Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight. Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N 
Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). 
Although the passes appear to identify the Petitioner as an artist, the events described on the passes 
are outside of the Petitioner's claimed area of expertise as a musician. For example, one event is 
described as a "[g]ala evening dedicated to the day of employees of the internal affairs bodies of 
the Russian Federation"; another is a "[s]olemn event dedicated to the Day ofCosmonautics." The 
information on the passes themselves does not indicate that they relate to excellence in music, and 
they do not explain why the Petitioner received them. We agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to establish that these access passes are nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of translated certificates indicating that he won second prize at 
vocal competitions in Russia in 2008 and 2010. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had 
not established that the claimed awards meet the regulatory requirements. The Petitioner does not 
address this conclusion on appeal, and has therefore waived appeal on this issue. See, e.g., Matter 
ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657,658 
n.2 (BIA 2012)). See also Debique v. Garland, 58 F.4th 676, 684 (2d Cir. 2023), cert. denied, 
144 S. Ct. 2715 (2024) (holding that issues not sufficiently argued on appeal are considered 
abandoned). 
The Director also found that the Petitioner had not satisfied the requirements of the other four 
claimed criteria: 
4 
• Membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
• Participation as a judge ofthe work of others in the same or an allied field of specification 
for which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
• Original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
• The display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not specifically address or dispute the Director's conclusions regarding 
these four criteria, and therefore he has waived appeal on them. 
The above conclusions are sufficient to determine the outcome of the appeal. Discussion of the 
remaining issue, regarding the Petitioner's intention to continue working in his field of expertise, 
cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 1 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to meet at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a degree of recognition of his work that 
rises to a level of sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner has established that he is 
active in his field as a performer and songwriter, but has not submitted evidence to show that he has 
achieved sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessmy to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4899729 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 11, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner competed in martial arts events in Uzbekistan, Thailand, and the United States. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets six criteria. After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Director determined that although the Petitioner provided evidence of his receipt of various 
martial arts awards, he did not show their national or international recognition for excellence in the 
field. In addition, the Director indicated that while the Petitioner provided printouts from the websites 
of the awarding entities, he did not offer independent, corroborating evidence. Moreover, the Director 
found that additional screenshots from Wikipedia lacked probative value. 3 We note that the Director 
issued a request for evidence (RFE) informing the Petitioner to submit additional documentation to 
establish that his prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (December 10, 2019), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
2 
field, such as the national or international media coverage of the prizes or awards. However, the 
Petitioner did not present any additional evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he "submitted all reasonably available evidence confirming the 
awards he received are lesser nationally and/or internationally recognized awards." However, the 
Petitioner does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the 
appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner did not indicate which evidence confirms his eligibility for this 
criterion. The Petitioner provided copies of certificates, medals, and photographs without 
demonstrating the national or international significance of the awards. Furthermore, the Petitioner 
submitted screenshots from various websites relating to the competitions, including Wikipedia, which 
do not discuss the national or international recognition of the bestowed awards. In the case here, the 
record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that his martial arts awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field consistent with the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 4 The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
provide any evidence to show that his memberships with the Uzbekistan National Combat Aikidio 
Team (UN CAT), the Uzbekistan National Martial Arts Team (UNMAT), and the Uzbekistan National 
Unifight Team (UNUT) require outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he "submitted extensive evidence 
establishing that he has been a member of [UNCAT], [UNMAT], and [UNUT] and that the above 
referenced teams require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the respective field." 
Again, the Petitioner does not does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or 
statement of fact for the appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner does not indicate which evidence he 
previously submitted and how it establishes his eligibility. Furthermore, the record contains letters 
from other associations claiming that UNCAT, UNMAT, and UNUT require outstanding 
achievements. For instance, the letter from the International Combat Aikido Association relates to 
UNCAT, the letter from the Amateur and Professional Kickboxing Federation of Uzbekistan 
(APKFU) relates to UNMAT, and the letter from the Unifight Federation of Uzbekistan relates to 
UFU. None of the letters explain how they are aware or know of the membership requirements for 
the other associations. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Furthermore, the letters repeat the regulatory language but do not elaborate or articulate how 
memberships require outstanding achievements,
1 as judgr by recognized national or international 
experts. For example,! I of APKFU, claimed that the Petitioner's 
"outstanding achievements in Marital [sic] Arts, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized 
experts in the field of Marital [sic] Arts and as confirmed by his major athletic victories that served as 
the basis for granting him membership [with UNMAT]." Whilel I asserted that the 
Petitioner became a member based on his major athletic victories, he did not indicate that UNMAT 
membership requires major athletic victories. In addition, repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any supporting 
evidence, such as the bylaws or membership requirements, from any of the associations to support the 
broad assertions in the letters. We note that the Director informed the Petitioner in its RFE to submit 
the section of the associations' constitution or bylaws discussing the membership qualifications, as 
well as information to establish that recognized national or international experts review prospective 
members' qualifications; however, the Petitioner did not provide any additional evidence. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 5 The Petitioner argues that he provided an article from Mir Novostei and an article from 
Vatanparvar reflecting published material about him relating to his work in the field. 
However, neither article represents published material about him. Specifically, the Mir Novostei 
article shows a report on the participation of representatives from the army club, NHSK, at the I I 
World Games for Eastern Martial Arts inl I Thailand. Here, the Petitioner is only mentioned 
one time among the other dozen of competitors named in the article. Furthermore, the Vatanparvar 
article reflects coverage of army fighters competing at the American Open Sambo Championship. In 
fact, the Petitioner is never mentioned in the article. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at* 1, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). In 
addition, the Petitioner did not include the required authors of the articles. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that Mir Novostei and Vatanparvar represent major media. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a "PR & Promotion" screenshot from mirnov.ru/pr­
promotion.html that claims the "audience of the newspaper is growing up with the publication." 
Similarly, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from Vatanparvar 's website indicating the dates of first 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
publication, electronic publication, and color publication. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how the evidence shows the major medium standing of either newspaper. USCIS need not rely on the 
self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 
6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover 
a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Further, the 
Petitioner did not provide the readership or circulation figures of the newspapers. 6 We note that the 
Director informed the Petitioner in its RFE to submit the circulation data for the publications; however, 
the Petitioner did not submit any additional evidence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
This regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others 
in the same or an allied field of specialization. 7 The Director found that although the Petitioner 
submitted a certificate showing his qualification to be a judge of national category and a letter from 
UFU indicating that he was a judge for various tournaments, he did not provide evidence describing 
the duties of a martial arts judge to demonstrate that he participated as a judge of the work of others 
consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record reflects that he submitted a letter for I ID of UFU, who stated that the 
Petitioner judged 15 championships at the national level from 2013 -2015. In the Director's RFE, he 
informed the Petitioner that his evidence did not describe the duties of a judge to show that he 
participated as a judge of the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he "provided extensive evidence establishing his participations 
[sic] a judge of the work of others in his field of specialization of specification for which classification 
is sought." Once again, the Petitioner does not does not identify specifically any erroneous conclusion 
of law or statement of fact for the appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner does not indicate the "extensive 
evidence" and how it shows his eligibility for this criterion. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner does not demonstrate that the position of a martial arts judge involves 
evaluating or judging the work or skills of competitors as opposed to enforcing the rules of a match 
and ensuring sportsmanlike competition. Moreover, the record lacks other evidence, such as official 
competition rules for the tournaments, showing that serving as a judge in this instance equates to 
determining winners rather than administering the rules. Without further documentation, such as 
evidence that he awarded points or exercised his judgment in choosing the ultimate winner, evidence 
regarding officiating or refereeing at matches is insufficient to meet this criterion. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy any of the criteria regarding to awards, memberships, 
published material, and judging. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, 
relating to original contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 8 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his athletic work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has competed in martial arts events, the record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 11, 2023 In Re: 29046472 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a comics creator and illustrator, seeks classification under the employment-based , first­
preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
Noncitizens may obtain U.S. permanent residence in this category if they demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" and provide "extensive documentation" ofrecognition they received 
for achievements in their fields. Id. 
The Acting Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met only one of 10 initial evidentiary criteria, two less than required for U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCIS) to conduct a final merits determination for eligibility under the 
requested immigrant visa category. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director misapplied 
law in finding insufficient evidence of: his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
published materials about himself; and his performance in a leading or critical role for organizations 
with distinguished reputations. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that, while the Petitioner has submitted qualifying evidence of his receipt of a 
nationally recognized award for excellence in his field, he has not demonstrated his satisfaction of a 
third evidentiary requirement. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the initial evidentiary requirements discussed above, USCIS then 
determines whether the record, as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and 
recognized achievements placing the noncitizen among the small percentage at the very top of their 
field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis 
of extraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Venezuelan national and citizen, began creating and illustrating 
comics in his home country in the 1970s. Specializing in action heroes, he co-founded an artistic 
merchandising company where, from 2006 to 2020, he served as president and lead illustrator and 
artist. 
Since 2020, the Petitioner has been working at a comic book development company in the United 
States as a comics creator and illustrator. He seeks to continue designing comics in this country. 
The record does not demonstrate -nor does the Petitioner claim -his receipt of a major, international 
award. He must therefore satisfy at least three of the 10 evidentiary requirements at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence of the display of his 
comics work at artistic exhibitions or showcases . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will next 
consider his claims that he: received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes; was the 
subject of published materials; and performed in a leading or critical role for distinguished 
organizations . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (viii). 
A. Receipt of Nationally or Internationally Recognized Prizes 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). USCIS first determines if a noncitizen -as opposed to their employer, for example -
received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. If so, the Agency then determines whether an award was nationally or internationally 
recognized and given for excellence in the field of endeavor. Id. Relevant considerations include: the 
1 If the ten standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation , the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
criteria used to grant the awards; their national or international significance; the number of recipients; 
and any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he won a 20221 laward in Venezuela in the category 
of'----------------------~ According to letters from the award 
foundation's president, the organization issues prizes annually to 60 to 100 honorees in a variety of 
fields, including: art; entertainment; media; business; and science. The foundation president stated 
that groups of experts in specific fields evaluate candidates based on their professional careers. 
The Director found that the Petitioner's award "appear[s] to be local or regional in nature." The 
Director also stated that "it has not been established that the prizes or awards were given for excellence 
in the petitioner's field of endeavor, or that the primary purpose of the prizes or awards was to 
recognize excellence in the petitioner's field." Citing the award's website, the Director concluded that 
the Petitioner did not receive his prize for excellence in his field, but rather "for the years of 
experience." 
A preponderance of the evidence, however, demonstrates the Petitioner's satisfaction of the 
regulation's criterion. Documentation establishes his receipt ofthd laward and its national 
recognition in Venezuela. See Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1230-31 (E.D. Mich. 1994) (holding 
that, to meet 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), an award "need not have significance outside of one country"). 
The award foundation's president stated that "[award] candidates are chosen nationally and from all 
parts of the world" and that the awards' issuances are televised in Venezuela. She said that, because 
the foundation has given the awards for more than 60 years, their "prestige and credibility" make them 
"the number one [awards] in Venezuela." An online article about the prizes describes them as "[t]he 
award for excellence in Venezuela." The article also quotes the foundation's former president as 
saying: "In the world there are many important prizes, but in Venezuela the best thing is to have aI ~' The evidence therefore sufficiently establishes the Petitioner's award as nationally 
recognized. 
.______ ,.....__________ ---, 
field. A copy of the award describes its issuance in the category of .___________ ___.I I The award foundation's president stated that a group of experts in the field 
of "plastic arts" evaluated the Petitioner and chose him ahead of four others in the field. 2 Although 
the foundation gives awards only to those with at least 10 years of experience in their fields, the 
president indicated that the organization does not base the prizes solely on number of years of 
experience. Rather, she stated that the awards seek "to exalt and dignify the talent of the best, with a 
recognition to brilliant men and women, who have excelled through their artistic, cultural, religious, 
business, scientific, educational, historical and entrepreneurial skills." A preponderance of the 
evidence therefore establishes the Petitioner's receipt of the award for excellence in his field. The Petitioner has also demonstrated that he received his award for excellence in his 
Consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Petitioner has demonstrated his receipt of a nationally 
recognized award for excellence in his field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary 
finding. 
2 In Latin America, the term "plastic arts" encompasses "painting, architecture, sculpture, textile art and all human 
expression that transforms materials into images and objects with aiiistic meaning." LatAm A1ie, "What Are Plastic Arts?" 
www.latamarte.com/en/articles/5MbA/ 
3 
B. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The evidence must include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translations. Id. 
USCIS first considers whether published materials relate to a petitioner and their specific work in their 
field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency then determines whether the 
materials' sources qualify as professional or major trade publications, or other major media. Id. 
In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade 
publication, or major medi[um], relevant factors include the intended audience (for 
professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or 
viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 
Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies offour online articles about himself and his comics work. The articles 
bear the following publication dates: August 2014; May 2022; July 2022; and September 2022. 
In response to the Director's request for additional evidence, the Petitioner submitted website analyses 
categorizing all four publication sources in the "news and media" industry. As the websites did not 
specifically target artists as audiences, the record does not establish the sources as professional or 
major trade publications. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) (listing the intended audience as a 
relevant factor "for professional and major trade publications"). 
Thus, we must determine whether any of the publication sources qualify as "other major media." See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). "[C]ourts generally agree that the phrase can mean a publication with 
significant reach and recognition. It follows that the AAO may reasonably require evidence of 
circulation or the like." Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D.N.J. 2021) (citations 
omitted). 
The website analyses provided by the Petitioner include readership statistics. The analyses state the 
following as of January 2023: 
• The source of the August 2014 publication generated 199,656 monthly visits. 6,437th in 
Venezuela and 28,246th in the news and media industry; 
• The source of the May 2022 publication generated 275,590 monthly visits, 1,150th in 
Venezuela and 12,894th in the news and media industry; 
• The source of the July 2022 publication generated 132,279 monthly visits, 272,043rd in the 
United States and 24,827th in the news and media industry; and 
• The source of the September 2022 publication generated 1.545 million monthly visits, 135th 
in Venezuela and 4,021st in the news and media industry. 
4 
Based on the number of monthly visits and rankings, we do not consider the sources of the August 
2014, May 2022, or July 2022 publications to constitute major media. But whether the source of the 
September 30, 2022 publication is a major medium is a much closer call. The adjective "major" 
ordinarily means "greater in dignity, rank, importance, or interest." Merriam-Webster Dictionary, 
"major," www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/major. The September 2022 source's generation of 
more than 1.5 million visits a month is substantial. But, based on the source's rankings as the 135th 
most visited website in Venezuela and 4,02lst in the news and media industry, the record does not 
demonstrate that the source constitutes a major medium. The record also lacks evidence of the 
source's level of dignity, importance, or interest. 
On appeal, the Petitioner urges us to "compare[] the [sources'] circulation or readership figures to 
those newspapers or magazines with similar intended audiences to determine if these figures raise it 
to the level of being considered major in nature." But we cannot make such comparisons because the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence ofthe readership statistics ofother publication sources. The appeal 
includes a copy of an online article, "Top 30 Venezuela Newspapers Online," ranking the source of 
the September 2022 publication about the Petitioner 10th. But the Director's RFE notified him of the 
need for additional evidence and gave him a reasonable opportunity to provide it. We therefore decline 
to accept the evidence on appeal. See Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). Also, 
even if we considered the article, it does not state readership statistics or the basis of its rankings. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted published materials in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media, relating to his work in the comics field. We will 
therefore affirm the Director's negative finding regarding the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
C. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This standard requires "[ e ]vidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS first determines whether a noncitizen has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, or its division or department. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). Evidence of a leading role must demonstrate that the noncitizen is ( or was) a leader within 
the organization, establishment, division, or department. Id. In contrast, evidence of a critical role 
must establish that a noncitizen contributed in a significant way to the outcome of the activities of an 
organization, establishment, division, or department. Id. 
If a noncitizen establishes their performance in a leading or critical role, USCIS then determines 
whether the organization, establishment, department, or division that benefited has a distinguished 
reputation. Id. The Agency considers the relative size or longevity ofan organization or establishment 
along with other relevant factors, such as the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage. 
Id. 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he has performed in leading or critical roles for the company he co­
founded in Venezuela and the U.S. business for which he now works. The Director, however, found 
insufficient evidence that these businesses have or had distinguished reputations. The Director stated: 
"The evidence only provides general information and does not contain information about any awards, 
5 
recogmt10n, or achievements garnered by the organizations or establishments, or otherwise 
demonstrate that [they] have distinguished reputations." 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director overlooked evidence. As proof that his 
Venezuelan employer had a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner submitted materials showing his 
development of the company's most successful product: an action figure of a Venezuelan military 
hero and revolutionary. The company's president, who is also the Petitioner's daughter, stated that 
major media, including one of Venezuela's most widely read newspapers, published articles about the 
action figure. A letter from a distributor states that, from 2009 to 2012, it sold more than 2,000 of the 
eight-inch-tall action figures. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of additional articles about the action figure, confirming its design by 
the Petitioner and its manufacture by his former employer. But the evidence does not establish that 
the company's manufacture of the figure or the media recognition the business received for making it 
earned the company a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner has not shown that the company was 
large, conducted business for a long time, or enjoyed a wide customer base. 
As evidence that the Petitioner's current U.S. employer has a distinguished reputation, he submitted 
materials showing the company's publication of a comic book he created about a lifeguard/superhero 
and the employer's participation in major comic book conventions in the United States. The record, 
however, does not establish that the company's publication of the comic book or its participation in 
large comics conventions provide it with a distinguished reputation. The evidence does not indicate 
whether the comic book is popular or profitable, or whether the conventions limited the number or 
type of companies that could participate. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the organizations for which he has 
performed leading or critical roles have or had distinguished reputations. We will therefore also affirm 
the Director's finding regarding the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his satisfaction of at least three of the 10 initial evidentiary 
requirements for the requested immigrant visa category. Thus, we need not make a final merits 
determination as to his eligibility as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability in his field and hereby 
reserve his appellate arguments in that regard. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating 
that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate 
decisions); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternate issues on appeal where an applicant does not otherwise qualify for relief). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner met a second initial evidentiary requirement by demonstrating his receipt ofa nationally 
recognized award for excellence in his field. But he did not establish his satisfaction of a third 
evidentiary criterion as required for the requested immigrant visa category. We will therefore affirm 
the petition's denial. 
6 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 11, 2023 In Re: 28963111 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to individuals who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not meet 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification by documenting his receipt of a major 
internationally recognized award, or in the alternative, by submitting evidence that satisfies at least 
three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director further concluded that the 
Petitioner had willfully mispresented material facts related to his past employment and professional 
accomplishments . The Petitioner subsequently filed combined motions to reopen and reconsider, in 
which he contested the Director's finding of willful misrepresentation. The Director dismissed the 
motions. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 53 7, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to nonc1t1zens who (1) have 
extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business or athletics which has been demonstrated 
by sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation; (2) seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area 
of extraordinary ability, and (3) will substantially benefit the United States upon their entry. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. WILLFUL MISREPRESENTATION OF A MATERIAL FACT 
The Director denied the petition, in part, based on a conclusion that the Petitioner had willfully 
misrepresented material facts with respect to several criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(v). 
A finding of willful misrepresentation of a material fact against a petitioner requires the following 
elements: 1 
• The petitioner procured, or sought to procure, a benefit under U.S. immigration laws; 
• The petitioner made a false representation; 
• The false representation was willfully made; 
• The false representation was material; and 
• The false representation was made to a U.S. government official. 
Prior to denying the petition, the Director issued a notice of intent to deny (NOID) in accordance with 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8) and 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i) (stating that if a decision will be adverse to a 
petitioner and is based on derogatory information considered by USCIS and of which the petitioner is 
unaware, they shall be advised of this fact and offered an opportunity to rebut the information and 
present information on their own behalf before the decision is rendered). The Director advised that 
the derogatory information pertaining to the Petitioner's eligibility under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii) and (ix) had been obtained by USCIS through "extensive research" conducted 
to validate his book publications, "open source queries" made in an effort to confirm his stated 
employment history with a publicly traded Chinese company, and review of a nonimmigrant visa 
1 See generally 8 USC1S Policy Manual J.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. As outlined by the Board of 
Immigration Appeals, a material misrepresentation requires that one willfully makes a material misstatement to a 
government official for the purpose of obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. Matter ofKai Hing 
Hui, 15 T&N Dec. at 288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as distinguished 
from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. Sec Matter of Tijam, 22 T&N Dec. 
408,425 (BIA 1998); Matter of Healy and Goodchild, 17 T&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). To be considered material, the 
misrepresentation must be one which "tends to shut off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and 
which might well have resulted in a proper determination that he be excluded." Matter ofNg, 17 l&N Dec. 536, 537 (BIA 
1980). 
2 
application (Form DS-160) the Petitioner had submitted to the U.S. Department of State in January 
2015, on which he had provided information regarding the salary he received from his former Chinese 
employer. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's response to the NOID included a brief from former counsel, a 
29-page personal statement from the Petitioner addressing the issues raised by the Director; and 
additional evidence intended to rebut the Director's determination that he had misrepresented material 
facts relating to the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii) and (ix). 
The Director did not address the NOID or the Petitioner's response but concluded that the Petitioner 
willfully misrepresented material facts. Further, the Director referenced a criterion not previously 
mentioned in the NOID. Specifically, the Director stated that "[b ]y claiming the [petitioner] held 
certain positions, original contributions of major sign[ficance, earned a certain salary and authored 
certain scholarly articles, the petitioner willfully made a false representation, and it is material to 
whether the beneficiary is eligible for the requested benefit." No further explanation is provided for 
the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner misrepresented material facts related to his original 
contributions under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In addressing the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the Director acknowledged that 
the Petitioner submitted a statement and additional evidence in response to the NOID. However, the 
decision does not discuss the contents of the Petitioner's detailed statement or the evidence he 
submitted to corroborate his statement. Counsel correctly asserts on appeal that "the denial did not 
provide any detailed analysis of Appellant's rebuttal arguments; the denial largely tracks the original 
language from the NOID."2 
While the Director provided the Petitioner an opportunity to rebut derogatory information obtained 
from outside the record ofproceeding in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(16)(i), the Director erred 
by failing to give due consideration to the evidence and arguments the Petitioner submitted in rebuttal 
to the NOID. Because the Director did not explain why this evidence was insufficient to overcome 
the derogatory information, the decision provides insufficient support for a finding of willful 
misrepresentation. When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons 
for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See, e.g., Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
As written, the Director's denial notice did not explain why the Petitioner's rebuttal to the NOID was 
deficient and did not afford the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to provide specific responses on 
appeal or motion to potentially overcome the Director's determination that he had willfully 
misrepresented facts that are material to his eligibility for the benefit sought. Accordingly, the 
2 In addition, counsel states that the Petitioner, through former counsel, provided "copious amounts of evidence and legal 
briefing on each of USCTS' s findings" in support of his motion to reopen and reconsider, emphasizing that the decision 
dismissing the motion similarly "contained no substantive discussion on why the Appellant's rebuttal evidence 
insufficiently addressed USCIS' s concerns." 
3 
Director's decisions denying the underlying petition and subsequent motion are withdrawn and the 
matter will be remanded to the Director for farther consideration and issuance of a new decision with 
respect to the underlying petition. 
In that new decision, the Director must consider and address the evidence submitted in rebuttal to the 
NOID. The Director should also consider the evidence and arguments submitted in support of the 
Petitioner's motion and appeal and may request any additional evidence considered pertinent to the 
new willful misrepresentation determination and any other issue. Finally, the Director must inform 
the Petitioner and allow him an opportunity for a rebuttal if the decision will be based on any 
derogatory information from outside the record of proceedings that has not yet been disclosed to him. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5764846 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an orthopedic surgeon, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. A petitioner can either demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award), or provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as an orthopedic surgeon and on the faculty of a hospital-affiliated medical 
school. He does not indicate that he intends to work in these capacities in the United States. Instead, 
he states that he seeks employment as a scientific advisor or consultant in orthopedics and traumatology. 
The Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award. Therefore, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner only fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others and performing in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion (pertaining to remuneration), 
discussed below. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not 
show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, including the following three: 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not met the above three criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does 
not address or contest these findings. The purpose of an appeal is to identify erroneous conclusions of 
law or statements of fact. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Because the Petitioner's appeal does not address 
the above findings, the Petitioner has abandoned the above criteria. See Sepulveda v. US. Atty Gen., 401 
F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885, at *1, 
2 
*9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned because he did not 
raise them on appeal). 
We will discuss the remaining three criteria below. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an alliedfield of spec[ficationfor which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion through his participation in juries to 
evaluate of the work of graduate-level medical students. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the record 
of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence 
establishing that he meets the regulatory requirements for the reasons outlined below. 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which the individual 
was responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner stated that he performed in a leading or critical role as "Head of the Unit of Knee and 
Arthroscopic Surgery and Joint Replacement Surgery" at the Hospital Central I I in I I Venezuela, and a professor at the affiliated medical school at the University otLJ The 
Petitioner submitted letters from various co-workers and colleagues. 
The Petitioner appears to have held a leadership position within a particular surgical unit at the hospital. 
But he did not submit objective documentary evidence to establish that his employers have distinguished 
reputations; that his position in charge of a specialized surgical unit was a leading or critical role for the 
hospital as a whole; or that his unit has a distinguished reputation in its own right. Similarly, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the University ofD has a distinguished reputation, and a university faculty position 
is not automatically or presumptively a critical role. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must submit evidence to ( 1) establish the level of his remuneration, 
and (2) allow a comparison between his remuneration and that of others in the field. We find that the 
Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to meet either of these requirements. 
The Petitioner initially submitted a letter from a clinic in Venezuela, indicating that the Petitioner earned 
"an income of more tha[n] 70% of fees, when compared with the rest of the medical specialist[s]." The 
meaning of this statement is not clear from its phrasing, and the letter did not show the Petitioner's actual 
remuneration or provide an objective basis for comparison with the remuneration of others in his field. 
3 
The Director requested objective documentation of the Petitioner's remuneration and evidence to allow 
the required comparison with others in the field. In response, the Petitioner submitted the following 
earnings figures, in Venezuelan bolivares fuertes: 1 
2015 
2016 
2017 
Total Income 
January 2018 
February 2018 
March 2018 
April 2018 
May2018 
June 2018 
Last Six Months Yearly Average Bs.F.182,350,000.00 
391,000,000.00 
549,200,000.00 
1,922,200,000.00 
198,652,000.00 
214,544,160.00 
239,907,408.00 
310,470,000.00 
406,658,500.00 
450,990,200.00 
25,294,475.37 
The Petitioner also showed that, given the conversion rates in effect as of March 8, 2019, 
Bs.F.25,294,475.37 were worth $2,532,613.30 in U.S. currency. The significance of the comparison is 
not clear, because, as explained below, the record does not adequately explain the origin of the 
Bs.F .25 ,294,4 7 5 .3 7 figure. 
The Director stated: "As of the date of this decision [March 14, 2019], the market rate of the Venezuelan 
Bolivar to the US dollar is 0.00003601," resulting in "an annual salary of $92,156.88," which "is 
significantly lower than the 2016 median salary [f]or a physician." To derive this figure, the Director 
relied on the exchange rate for VES, not VEF as the Petitioner did. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's 
specific finding regarding exchange rates. 
Nevertheless, the financial figures are problematic for several other reasons: 
• The accountant who prepared the above table stated that the figures derived from "bank 
statements, tax returns, agreements and other documents," but those documents are not in the 
record, and the accountant did not specify the amounts shown on individual documents. Because 
the Petitioner did not submit payroll or tax documents, we cannot determine whether the 
Petitioner's compensation increased substantially every month, or, instead, the figures represent 
cumulative totals, with the figures for each month or year added to the next. (The amount shown 
as the Petitioner's income for June 2018 is worth about $45 million in U.S. currency, given the 
cited exchange rate of roughly ten bolivares fuertes to the dollar. This amount appears to be 
implausibly high for a month's remuneration.) 
• The table does not specify how much of the reported income was in the form of remuneration for 
services, rather than from other sources such as investments. 
1 We note that Venezuela revalued its cunency in August 2018, with the new bolivar soberano (VES or B.S.) being phased 
in to replace the bolivar fuerte (VEF or B.F.), although trading continues in both currencies. All the figures shown above 
predate the conversion and therefore represent bolivares fuertes. Information about the currency conversion is available 
through links embedded at http://bcv.org.ve/billetes-y-monedas/bolivar-soberano, last visited Nov. 20, 2019. 
4 
• The annual figures for 2015 through 2017 do not add up to the amount shown as 'Total Income" 
directly beneath those figures. 
• The monthly figures shown for January to June of 2018 have no discernible relation to the much 
lower figure identified as the "Last Six Months Yearly Average." The record does not show how 
this average was calculated. 
Given these deficiencies, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish his actual 
remuneration for services. 
In an effort to provide a basis to compare his income with that of others in the field in Venezuela, the 
Petitioner submitted a printout from PayScale, showing the following figures for Venezuela as of 
December 7, 201 7: 
Physician / General Practice 
Physician / Internal Medicine Bs.750,900 
1,368,000 
The Petitioner resubmits this printout on appeal, and, comparing the Bs.1,368,000 figure to 
Bs.549,200,000.00 from the accountant's table, states that he "earns almost 400 [times] more" than "the 
maximum amount made by a physician in Venezuela in December 2017." 
The PayScale printout is deficient for several reasons: 
• The printout shows "Salary" information, which does not appear to take into account other forms 
of remuneration such as bonuses and foes for specific services. Without knowing such figures, 
both for the Petitioner and for others in his field, a fair comparison is not possible. 
• The Petitioner is an orthopedic surgeon, not a general practitioner or internist. 
• The Petitioner earned remuneration not only as a physician, but also as a university faculty 
member. There is no indication that the individuals surveyed for the PayScale chart held paid 
academic positions. 
• The chart refers to the above amounts as both "Average" and "Median Salary," but the terms are 
not necessarily interchangeable. (For data sets with wide ranges of values, the arithmetic mean 
may differ significantly from the median.) 
• The chart shows the same figures for the "Average" and "Max[imum]" salaries. 
• The chart does not specify the interval of the salaries ( e.g., weekly, monthly, or annual). 
• An annotation on the chart shows that only 10 individuals provided salary information. This 
sampling is too small to support any larger or general conclusions. 
The Petitioner's claim of high remuneration rests on incomplete, uncorroborated, and questionable 
numbers. We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not met his burden of proof with respect to 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals at the top of their 
respective fields. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. 
5 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown 
that the significance and recognition of his medical career are indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that they are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For the 
foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5827043 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business analyst, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Director of Business Analysis for~I ---------~~ subsidiary ofLJ D Financial Corporation. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commanding a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). We will not disturb these findings. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work 
of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and original contributions of major significance under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner 
has satisfied the criterion relating to judging, but not relating to contributions, as discussed below. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner stated that he 'judged the 2018 I I Business Awards, one of thel IA wards 
presented each year ... [ and] also judged the 2018 I IA wards." The Director acknowledged 
that the Petitioner was named as a judge, but found that the Petitioner had not submitted documentary 
evidence to establish that he actually participated as a judge for those awards. 
2 
We disagree with the Director's finding. The initial submission included a certificate presented to the 
Petitioner "for judging the 20181 !Business Awards." The wording, on its face, implies that 
the judging had already taken place, and the record does not indicate otherwise. Scoring took place online 
over a period of weeks or months, with no indication that judges were presented with records of individual 
votes cast. The sign[ficance of this judging activity is a matter for discussion in the final merits 
determination, below. 
We do agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not shown that he actually participated as a judge 
for thel IA wards. The acceptance message from that entity reads, in part: "After you have 
completed your scoring, the last page will have the details on how to request a certificate of appreciation." 
The record does not show that the Petitioner ever received such a certificate, and there is no alternative 
evidence that the Petitioner "completed [his] scoring." 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner stated that he "made significant contributions while developing~-------~ 
Compliance Program in response to thel I regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act; his 
contributions have also had major impact as they influenced the development of the I !program at 
over 50% of the market." An associate general counsel atl I elaborated: 
While designing the program that would hel~ I meet the spirit and intent of the 
regulation, [the Petitioner] created a tool that combined a number of top-down and 
bottom-up assessment techniques to determine I I applicability for all financial 
instruments within the bank .... This tool enabled I I to quickly determine how 
the regulation applied to its activities and build the necessary controls for compliance over 
a period of only several months. In comparison, other regional banks took over a year to 
complete the same activity. This also allowed I I to lead the way for other 
regional banks by sharing information on best practices and set the bar for i~ I practices. . . . [T]he same principles could be applied to other programs withinL___J 
[The Petitioner] also developed the process for the CEO to provide his attestation annually 
with very few moving parts in a cascaded accountability model that ... was different and 
more efficient than other traditional CEO attestation processes. 
The Petitioner stated: 'The regional banks that participated inl ts Regional Banking Group 
meeting to discuss ... constitute over half of the banks in the KBW Bank Index," which "track[ s] the 
performance of the leading banks and thrifts that are publicly traded in the U.S." The Petitioner named 
3 
the banks participating in the Regional Banking Group, and asserted, through counsel, that his work has 
had an "impact ... on over 50% of the market." 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence from any of the other named banks to show that those banks have 
adopted the compliance tools that the Petitioner developed; their involvement in conference calls is not 
evidence of that adoption. The Director requested evidence of widespread implementation of the 
Petitioner's methods, to show that the Petitioner's contributions were "of major significance to the field 
instead of just the petitioner's organization." 
In response, counsel for the Petitioner stated that, owing to privacy concerns, "bankers tend to be the most 
taciturn amongst all professionals" and therefore the Petitioner "is unable to provide any additional 
documented evidence from external parties." Assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter 
of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) (citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 
503, 506 (BIA 1980)). 
The Petitioner, through counsel, asked the Director to consider previously submitted letters "under the 
secondary evidence rule." This refers to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l)(ii), which reads: 
The non-existence or other unavailability of required evidence creates a presumption of 
ineligibility. If a required document, such as a birth or marriage certificate, does not exist 
or cannot be obtained, an applicant or petitioner must demonstrate this and submit 
secondary evidence, such as church or school records, pertinent to the facts at issue. If 
secondary evidence also does not exist or cannot be obtained, the applicant or petitioner 
must demonstrate the unavailability of both the required document and relevant secondary 
evidence, and submit two or more affidavits, sworn to or affirmed by persons who are not 
parties to the petition who have direct personal knowledge of the event and circumstances. 
Secondary evidence must overcome the unavailability of primary evidence, and affidavits 
must overcome the unavailability of both primary and secondary evidence. 
The Petitioner has not submitted documentary evidence, either primary or secondary, to show that "over 
50% of the market" has implemented his methods. The Petitioner also did not submit two or more sworn 
affidavits to that effect from individuals with direct personal knowledge of the event and circumstances. 
The Petitioner cited three unsworn letters, none of which indicate widespread adoption of the Petitioner's 
compliance tool. An official at I I stated that the "approach was ... shared b~ lwith 
other regional banks," but this does not show that the other banks implemented that approach. The other 
letters ( one of which is from a former co-worker who worked with the Petitioner on the I I 
compliance issue) praised the Petitioner's method but did not indicate it was in wider use. The submitted 
evidence also does not show how the Petitioner is in a position to know that a significant number of major 
banks have used his method. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not shown his contributions to be of major significance to the 
field as a whole, beyond his own employer. 
On appeal, the Petitioner again refers to the letters submitted with the initial filing of the petition. In 
particular, the Petitioner states that a senior vice president at I I "specifically discusses how [ the 
Petitioner's] work has major significance in the industry." The Petitioner then quotes two paragraphs of 
4 
the I I official's letter, but the quoted passage does not show, or even imply, that other banks 
use the Petitioner's compliance tool; there is, instead, the more general statement that the Petitioner's I !compliance tool "establishes the framework for using similar analytical skills to develop 
other compliance and risk management programs." Separately from that program, the Petitioner "has 
also developed expertise in the overall field of risk management on account of his performance in a 
number of key enterprise programs that are critical to support any [large] financial services com~ 
(When the Petitioner, through counsel, listed the banks that are said to have implemented the tool,L__J I lwas not among them.) 
The submitted evidence shows that the Petitioner's work has been important to ~I ---~I but does not 
extrapolate to major significance in the field. 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner has held various positions atl lsince completing his master's degree in 2012. 
The record lacks an organizational chart to show precisely where the Petitioner stands in the 
company's hierarchy, but the record includes several letters from officials who indicate that the 
Petitioner is under their authority. His importance to the company derives not from his rank, but from 
the work he has done for his employer. A senior business director atl !Financial Corporation 
stated that the Petitioner "leads a number of keyOManagement functions" including the 'I I 
OProgram" and '1 I Program." The importance of these functions and programs led the 
Director to grant that the Petitioner performs in a critical role forl ~ The importance of the 
Petitioner's role within the company is also evident from his high remuneration (which the Director also 
acknowledged) and from documentation of internal recognition for his contributions to various projects. 
But the Petitioner's importance to his employer does not necessarily translate to sustained national or 
international acclaim throughout the field. The record contains only minimal, anecdotal information 
about the Petitioner's reputation beyond his employer. We have already discussed the Petitioner's 
assertion that, owing to confidentiality requirements and general banking culture, he cannot submit direct 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
5 
evidence of the impact and influence his work has had on other banking institutions. The question 
necessarily arises as to how the Petitioner himself could be aware of that impact and influence in the 
absence of evidence. 
Much of the information and evidence submitted on appeal pertains to the Petitioner's judging activity. 
The Petitioner initially claimed to have "been asked to judge the work of others," but the record shows 
that the Petitioner applied to judge the awards, by clicking links on the awarding entities' websites. 2 The 
distinction is significant because to be singled out for a personal invitation to serve as a judge may be a 
sign of one's standing in one's field. In contrast, open solicitation for volunteers does not entail that kind 
of recognition. 
The awarding entities accepted and approved the Petitioner's applications to serve as a judge, but the 
record lacks important information about the application and approval process. Most significantly, the 
record does not reveal how the entities determine whether to approve or deny a given application. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not shown that approval of a judging application reflects existing acclaim in 
business. Likewise, the record does not show that being publicly identified as a judge results in, or 
contributes to, acclaim in the field. The Petitioner submits no documentary evidence about the reputations 
of the awarding entities apart from self-serving promotional materials and press releases from the entities 
themselves. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 The link on thee=J Awards' website reads "You Be The Judge," and the link on the._l -----~ Awards' website reads 
"Volunteer To Be A Judge -Apply Now." 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5960528 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States in November 2016 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor for pleasure, a 
classification that does not permit employment in the United States. After filing the petition, she obtained 
employment authorization and has participated in various fashion shows. 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) (the Petitioner judged 
a regional pageant). The Petitioner claims also to have met three other evidentiary criteria, discussed 
below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner 
has only met the criterion relating to judging the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a three-page letter describing her career to date, including events that 
occurred after the petition's filing date. In this letter, the Petitioner does not directly address the 
evidentiary criteria or show how the Director's findings were in error. The Petitioner also submits 
photographs showing her participation in various projects. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner won the title "Missl I' at the 2015 Missl lbeauty pageant. The Director 
found that the Petitioner did not establish that this title is a nationally or internationally recognized prize 
or award for excellence. We agree with this finding. On appeal, the Petitioner repeats the assertion that 
she won the "Miss I I' title, but she provides no new information to establish its recognition. 
1 Initially, the Petitioner identified herself as a fashion model and actor. Later, she stated: "My field of expe1tise is Fashion 
business and I am a Model. ... I will continue [to] work in Fashion business as [a] model," although the Petitioner expressed 
an intention eventually to resume acting. 
2 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
This is the only criterion that the Petitioner specifically addresses on appeal. We agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied its requirements. 
In general, in order for published material to meet this criterion, it must be about the petitioner and, as 
stated in the regulations, be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
To qualify as major media, the publication should have significant national or international 
distribution. 
Al I magazine, identified only by itsl I name !Jomo!J, ran a feature on the Miss .... l __ _, 
2015 pageant, including a captioned, full-page photograph of the Petitioner. The translated caption is 
written in the first person, indicating that the Petitioner wrote it herself The Petitioner identified herself 
as a "professional actress and psychologist," listed her interests (such as dancing and writing novellas), 
and described her career goals (such as screenwriting, directing, and performing Shakespeare on 
Broadway). Due to the autobiographical nature of this caption and its lack of details regarding her work, 
this material has not been shown to be about the Petitioner's work in the field. The magazine piece relates 
to her participation in a pageant, and the Petitioner has not shown that competing in a pageant constitutes 
work in the field. 
A second magazine, with thel I name mo8o/Jo, appears to be a newsletter for customers ofc=J 
Bank. The Petitioner did not show that the magazine contains any articles about her, relating to her work 
in the field. Rather, the Petitioner stated that she is the "face ofOBank," and therefore appears in 
many of its promotional photographs. 
The Petitioner did not submit evidence to show that either of the submitted magazines are professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not shown that she was the subject of qualifying media 
coverage. On appeal, the Petitioner submits photographs showing her: 
• In advertisements for a mobile communications provider; 
• Appearing "in one of the most famous music video[s] ever released inl t'; 
• Reading poetry on an unidentified "mid Day talk Show" on !MEDI-TV; and 
• Participating in the 2015 Mis~ ~ pageant. 
The above evidence shows that the Petitioner has appeared on television, but the Petitioner has not 
established that these appearances were about the Petitioner, relating to her work in the field. Participation 
in an advertising campaign is not qualifying media coverage; the advertisements, by nature, are about the 
products advertised, and purchasing advertising space is not the same as attracting third-party coverage. 
The Petitioner appeared in a music video for the song 1 I' by ,..__ _____ _,. The creator of 
the video claimed that it was his most successful project, and the Petitioner calls it "one of the most 
3 
famous music video[ s] ever released inl I" but the record lacks documentary evidence to show the 
extent of its distribution. Furthermore, the music video is not about the Petitioner, relating to her work. 
Rather, she essentially played a character in a promotional film that exists primarily to advertise a record. 
Regarding the unnamed !MEDI-TV talk show, the Petitioner stated that she read a Shakespeare sonnet, 
and had "been invited to the show for being the contestant of Miss I O 12015 [ and] to talk about why 
beauty queen beside external beauty needs to be intellectual and talented as well." The Petitioner stated 
that she was also interviewed on Rustavi 2 by the "Executive Producer of Mis~ t and] Owner & 
General Manager ofO Model Management." The accompanying screen captures do not show any 
interview taking place, nor were any interview transcripts provided. In addition, the Petitioner claims that 
"Rustavi 2 is the most successful private television broadcasting company in I O I" but does not 
submit documentary evidence to show that the programs were nationally broadcast on major media. 
The Petitioner has established some degree of media presence in~I --~I but the submitted evidence 
does not meet the requirements spelled out in the regulation. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. The Director cited various letters in 
the record, offering general praise for the Petitioner, but the Petitioner does not appear to have specifically 
claimed to have satisfied the requirements for this criterion. 2 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted two letters from the head of~ lfilm studio, stating that they address this 
criterion. One letter indicated that the Petitioner had worked with the company "several times on [a] 
number of commercial productions as well as feature films." Without further elaboration and 
corroborating evidence, this letter cannot satisfy the requirements of the regulation. Films and 
advertisements are not intrinsically artistic exhibitions or showcases, but generally serve a commercial 
purpose. We can give some consideration to the circumstances under which a given film is shown (such 
as film festivals), but the Petitioner has not provided information in that regard. 
2 On appeal, the Petitioner lists eight criteria she claimed to have met in responding to the Director's request for evidence, 
but she does not indicate which evidence was submitted to establish which criterion. 
4 
The second letter indicated that the Petitioner is an "Executive Producer of several movie projects ... in 
pre-production," and will "attend the American Film Market and Location Show ... from October 29 
thru November 9, 2018, to showcase [the] above mentioned projects." The Petitioner did not initially 
claim eligibility as a film producer, and the Petitioner does not explain how a "Market and Location 
Show" is an artistic exhibition or showcase, nor does she specify what work of hers was displayed there. 
(By definition, films in pre-production do not yet exist and cannot be displayed.) The show in question 
took place nearly a year after the Petitioner filed the petition in November 2017, and therefore cannot 
establish eligibility as of the filing date. The Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time 
of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role is evidenced from the role itself: and a critical role is one in which the alien was 
responsible for the success or standing of the organization or establishment. 
The Petitioner claimed that she fulfilled the requirements for this criterion by appearing in advertisements 
for major brands. The Director acknowledged these appearances, but found that the Petitioner had not 
established that she performed in a leading or critical role for any named organization. 
We agree with the Director's finding. The Petitioner has worked for important clients, but has not shown 
that her appearances in advertisements have significantly contributed to the success or standing of those 
clients. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not satisfied this criterion. The Petitioner did not specifically 
claim to have satisfied it, although she submitted letters that specify the fees she received for appearing 
in various advertisements. The Petitioner did not provide any basis for comparison to show that these 
fees were high in relation to others in the field. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
As above, the Petitioner did not specifically claim to have satisfied this criterion. The Director 
acknowledged that the Petitioner had worked in the performing arts, but the record contains no 
documentation of the types described in the regulation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23092683 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jewelry maker, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he 
must meet at least three. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four additional evidentiary 
criteria. In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested 
benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, that of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), related to judging others' work and that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), related to 
artistic exhibitions and showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets four additional 
evidentiary criteria, which we will analyze below. While we may not discuss each piece of evidence 
individually, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.1 To evidence his eligibility under this criterion, the 
Petitioner provided a membership certificate signed by the head of administration for the I I 
Regional Administration of I !Association of People's Masters, Craftspeople and Artists of 
the Republic of Uzbekistan," which states that the Petitioner's membership certificate was for the 
"making of memorial wares," and was valid from October 2016 to October 2017.2 Accompanying the 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing for the requested benefit and must continue to be eligible for 
the benefit through its adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Similarly, we conclude that for a certificate to serve as 
evidence of eligibility under this criterion, it must have been valid at the time of filing and continue to remain valid through 
the adjudication of the petition. 
2 
certificate is a 2016 reference document, signed by the head of the and stating that 
since 2011, the Petitioner has been a member and specialist of the Department of 
I I Association ofl Region." 
To evidence how the Petitioner became a member of the association, he submitted a 2018 letter from the 
Chairman of the I Department ofl !Association, which states that the Petitioner has 
been a member of the I Association since 2008 and that he remains a current and full member 
of the association. The author explained that admission to the association is based upon the 
recommendations of the Art Experts Council, a group composed solely of nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in their respective fields of folk art. The letter further states that two specific 
internationally known art critics recommended the Petitioner for membership and that they based their 
recommendations upon the Petitioner's outstanding achievements as a master of I I traditional 
jewelry making. While the two art critics each provided letters explaining why they recommended the 
Petitioner for membership, neither critic describes any specific outstanding achievement(s) that enabled 
the Petitioner to become a member in the association. Instead, the authors praise the Petitioner's style 
and methods in jewelry making and then declare that he has outstanding achievement. The authors do 
not support their assertions with corroborating details about any specific outstanding achievement(s), 
rather they simply repeat the language found in the extraordinary ability regulations. Repeating the 
language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fed in Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Associates, Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
In response to the Director's re uest for evidence RFE the Petitioner provided an additional letter from 
the "CEO of Republic of Uzbekistan" to suggest that the 
association has 1,200 members in a regional branch of thel I Union." However, the record 
does not reflect how many regional branches exist or whether the Union is the same as the I I Association or the I I District Department of Association. In the 
Petitioner's RFE response, he provided another letter from the CEO of which stated that the 
Petitioner was "elected to" the association, which does not necessarily support a finding that his 
membership was based on outstanding achievement. 
Notably, the evidence contains various names for the association without an explanation of its structure 
such that we can ascertain what the name variations represent. We cannot determine which name is the 
correct name or whether all the different names refer to the same entity.3 As the association's name is 
inconsistent throughout the record, we cannot determine in which association the Petitioner claims 
membership. In addition to inconsistencies in the name, the documents contain inconsistent dates for 
when the Petitioner became a member. The certificate stated that the Petitioner was a member from 
October 2016 to October 2017; the reference document stated that he has been a member since 2011; 
initial letters state that he has been a member since 2008; and a letter submitted in the RFE response stated 
that the Petitioner became a member in 2012. While the evidence suggests that the Petitioner's 
membership expired in October 2017, a 2018 letter conflicts with this information when it states that the 
3 To illustrate, the evidence includes numerous association names, including '•City Department of Department of 
region! I Association of artisans, Craftsmen and artists of Uzbekistan,"! Regional · · ·ation of 
Association of People's Masters, Crafts eople and Artists of the Republic of U zbekistan, 
Department of Association of Region," I I Association," 
Folk Artists, Republic of Uzbekistan," and Union." 
3 
Petitioner is a current and full member. The Petitioner must resolve these inconsistencies with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). However, even if the Petitioner had resolved the inconsistencies related to the association 
name and his membership dates, the record would still not support a finding that the association requires 
outstanding achievements of their members. 
We therefore conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual 's work in the field.for which class(fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material.4 The Petitioner provided evidence of articles written about the Petitioner and his jewelry 
making in various media including the newspapers Bukhara Okshomi, Bukharian Times, and Business 
City, as well as the magazine, Tasvir. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the media sources 
represent professional or major trade publications or other major media. Where circulation or 
readership figures were provided, the Petitioner did not explain or show the significance of the figures 
such that they substantiate a finding that the media have major status or standing.5 
We acknowledge that Bukhara Okshomi claims a readership of 10,000, that it publishes twice a week, 
and that it circulates 2,000 printed copies, while Tasvir claims a readership of more than 10,000 people, 
and Business City claims a circulation of 10,000 to 20,000 copies per month. However, these are self­
reported figures from the newspaper's editor or publisher. The Petitioner did not support the record 
with independent, objective evidence conoborating the newspapers' claims. USCIS need not rely on 
the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. 
July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving assertions on the 
cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of a major medium); see also, 
e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
Regarding Bukharian Times and Business City, the evidence suggests that their coverage of the 
Petitioner is self-promotional in nature, and that the Petitioner may have paid the newspaper to feature 
articles about him and his jewelry. The record contains evidence that both newspapers sell advertising 
space. For instance, the Bukharian Times lists various prices based upon the amount of space 
purchased, as well as for printing in black and white or in color. Similarly, as the Petitioner appears 
to have written the Tasvir article himself, we question whether advertisement space can be purchased 
in Tasvir as well. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling a foreign national's products 
or promoting his or her services are not generally considered to be published material about the foreign 
national.6 In addition, a separate criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) considers the authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field, and as such, autobiographical material is generally not considered to be 
4 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
5 See id. (indicating that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 
about the foreign national. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
they have made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.7 In support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided numerous letters from individuals 
in the Uzbekistan art community, including but not limited to letters from I I a museum art 
curator;I ) thel I "Department of the Art Authentication of the Ministry of Culture 
and Sports of the Republic of Uzbekistan in I I Region;" andl I and I I 
museum art directors. 
The authors of the letters praise the Petitioner for his ability to mix traditional and modern styles of 
jewelry, his "creative rethinking" and methods of jewelry making, and the uniqueness of his jewelry. 
However, the authors did not identify any specific original contributions the Petitioner has made in 
the field, nor did they provide detailed information explaining how the contributions have been 
majorly significant in the field. For instance, while the Petitioner's creativity as a jewelry maker may 
be a praiseworthy quality, the authors do not explain how this represents an original contribution in 
the field. In addition, the authors continuously repeat regulatory language and terminology without 
supporting their statements with specific detai Is or corroborating documentation. Most of these letters 
are similar in language such that we question whether they were independently written. The similar, 
oftentimes identical, wording strongly suggests a common author, whom we can infer to be the Petitioner 
or Counsel.8 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and have impacted subsequent work add value.9 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value and are less probative.10 Depending on the specificity, detail, 
and credibility of a letter, USCIS may give the document more or less persuasive weight in a 
proceeding. The Board of Immigration Appeals (the Board) has held that: "We not only encourage, 
but require the introduction of corroborative testimonial and documentary evidence, where available." 
Id. If testimonial evidence lacks specificity, detail, or credibility, there is a greater need for the 
petitioner to submit corroborative evidence. Matter of Y-B-, 21 l&N Dec. 1136 (BIA 1998). 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
8 Cf. Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
9 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.D.C. 1990). Here, the letters label the Petitioner's work as "major," 
"significant," or "original," but the authors do not substantiate their claims with details or examples. 
On appeal, the Petitioner continues to reiterate that he has made original contributions in the field because 
he mixes tradition with modernity, his pieces have unique cultural meaning, and his jewelry and work 
demonstrate artistic excellence. However, as stated, neither the authors of the reference letters nor the 
Petitioner have substantiated these assertions with specific details or sufficient corroborative evidence. 
Further, even if the Petitioner's work in general could be considered an original contribution, the evidence 
does not support a finding of its significance in the field. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has made original contributions which have been of 
major significance in the field, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media."11 In general, scholarly work(s) should 
have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as 
illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article.12 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.13 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he authored several articles and two books containing content 
such as a biographical history of the Petitioner, an explanation of his materials and methods, a history 
ofl ljewelry, as well as numerous I photos r the Petitioner and his jewelry. The written 
materials provide general information about jewelry and offer an overview of the Petitioner's 
life, career, and methods. As such, the content does not support a finding that it is written for learned 
persons in the field. Furthermore, although one written work contains a list of references at the end 
of it, the written material itself does not include any indication of where in the work the Petitioner 
cited or used the claimed references. 
The Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish that his articles and books have 
appeared in professional or major trade publications or other major media. In fact, the Petitioner has 
not provided sufficient evidence that his works have appeared in any media at all. We acknowledge 
the Petitioner claims that his articles appeared in Bukhara Okshomi, Bukharian Times, and Tasvir; 
however, this is insufficient to establish that that the Petitioner's written works appeared in any 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. To illustrate, the works include an 
initial or ending page that contains "published in" or "published by" type of information, the number 
of copies printed, other information about the publishing company and editor, or a letter from the 
editor. Nevertheless, it is not apparent from this evidence that the works actually appeared in any 
media, as opposed to simply being printed or published. 
11 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
6 
In addition, as we previously discussed and incorporate here by reference, the record does not establish 
that Bukhara Okshomi, Bukharian Times, and Tasvir are professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. While the Petitioner provided a letter stating that his book is used as a tutorial in 
a public school, this is insufficient to establish that the book is either scholarly or published in a 
professional or major trade publication or other major media. Further, the Petitioner has not explained 
how public school students would meet the definition of "learned" individuals in his particular field, 
such that his book could be considered scholarly. 
Although the Petitioner submitted an accompanying "review" for his written works, some of the 
reviews are no more than letters from an editor or publisher providing a brief summarization of the 
contents of the written work. Although the reviews of the Petitioner's books are longer, it is not 
apparent where the reviews of the books were published or that the books themselves were published 
and available for reading.14 In other words, the "reviews" themselves do not suggest that the material 
actually appeared in major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents an advisory opinion letter from I 
concerning the Petitioner's eligibility under the extraordinary ability criteria. Although 
a filmmaker and professor, speaks highly of the Petitioner and his work,I I opinion largely 
repeats the conclusions of others and frequently quotes documents already provided in the record. LJ I ldoes not present evidence or analysis that overcomes the deficiencies the Director identified 
in the decision. As a matter of discretion, we may use opinion statements submitted by the Petitioner 
as advisory. Matter of Caron Int'l, Inc., 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988). However, we will 
reject an opinion or give it less weight if it is not in accord with other information in the record or if it 
is in any way questionable. Id. We are ultimately responsible for making the final determination 
regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought; the submission of expert opinion letters is 
not presumptive evidence of eligibility. Id. Here, lletter does not contain sufficient 
independent analysis, nor does he offer support for his conclusory statements. In addition, although 
he stated that through his academic history and professional experience as a filmmaker, he developed 
expert knowledge on how to analyze, evaluate, and characterize job duties, responsibilities, 
qualifications, and expertise, I I does not demonstrate knowledge ofl I artisanal 
crafts or jewelry making such that he would be qualified to offer his opinion on the Petitioner's 
eligibility. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
14 A review of one of the books comes from the "head of the I department of the Association of ___ 
and a review of another book comes from an "International expert of Center Handicraft Development," but there is little 
information to suggest where these reviews appeared. 
7 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2023 In Re: 29299987 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the initial evidentiary requirements through receipt of a one-time achievement or 
satisfaction of at least three of the ten categories of evidence. We dismissed the appeal and a 
subsequent motion to reopen. The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our prior decision, we concluded the Petitioner's motion to reopen did not demonstrate eligibility 
for the awards criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , and the original contributions criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). In addition, 
we determined that we would not consider his new eligibility claims and evidence for the membership 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the scholarly articles criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) , and the high 
salary criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) because the Petitioner did not claim eligibility or 
submit the documentation before the Director. 
In the present motion to reconsider, the Petitioner highlights his personal and professional 
accomplishments, such as his education and language fluency, and claims he has "international[] 
influence ." In addition, the Petitioner describes some of his history with "UVC sterilization 
implementation" and opines on the "[ n Jew generation of future sterilization lamp semiconductor 
circuit." 
The scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision" and "the latest decision in the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). Here, the Petitioner does not explain or demonstrate how we erred as a 
matter oflaw or policy in dismissing his previous motion to reopen. Instead, the Petitioner emphasizes 
his past accomplishments and discusses the potential of his future work. See e.g., Matter of O-S-G-, 
24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) ("a motion to reconsider is not a process by which a party may submit, 
in essence, the same brief presented on appeal and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in 
the prior Board decision"). Because the Petitioner does not show how we misapplied law or point to 
policy contradicting our analysis of the evidence, the motion does not satisfy the requirements for a 
motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We will not re-adjudicate the petition anew and, 
therefore, the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2023 In Re: 28981666 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artificial intelligence and natural language processing technology business, seeks to 
classify the Beneficiary, a software engineer, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish the Beneficiary satisfied at least three ofthe initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary met five criteria, the 
Director determined the Petitioner did not fulfill any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the 
Beneficiary qualifies for three categories of evidence. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 2 USCIS then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 3 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 4 
The Petitioner claims it demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based on the 
submission of reference letters and patent information. The record reflects the Petitioner presented 
1 We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not contested on appeal to be abandoned. An issue not raised on 
appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N 
Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
several letters from individuals who worked with the Beneficiary. Although the letters indicate 
projects in which the Beneficiary collaborated or developed, the letters do not show how they resulted 
in original contributions of major significance in the field. Instead, the letters briefly describe the 
Beneficiary's projects without detailing the significance of the work in the field. For instance, "[the 
Beneficiary] worked as a Software Engineer on a project developing a single, universal solution for 
cardiac device patient management that meets the in-office needs of clinicians and the emerging and 
changing needs of remote patients" (O-B-); "[the Beneficiary] was responsible for a project that 
developed a clinical trial management system for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies"; and 
"we've done a few projects related to upgrades of OpenStack-based clouds, performance testing ofthe 
different scenarios live-migrations that are relevant in the enterprise environments" (V-N-). Here, 
none of the letters farther elaborate and describe whether the Beneficiary's projects or work has 
influenced or impacted the field in a major way. Similarly, although B-C-claimed the Beneficiary 
"had a tremendous impact on the [A-] product," the letter does not farther explain or justify how the 
Beneficiary "had a tremendous impact." Moreover, B-C-'s vague claim refers to the limited impact 
on the employer rather than the overall field. 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance.5 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 6 
In this case, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining how the Beneficiary has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Regarding the patents, the Petitioner offered a letter from O-R-who stated the Beneficiary 
"contributed to the design architecture of our entire solution by applying his knowledge and skills in 
maintaining scalable, high-loaded Web applications" for P-. In addition, O-R-briefly described two 
patents in which the collaborated and stated "[t]his was a novel solution to the technical problem faced 
by systems for matching electronic activities to CRM system," and "[t]his invention ... represents a 
novel and original contribution to the development of information technology platforms for large­
scale, complex enterprise revenue intelligence systems." Again, O-R-did not farther elaborate and 
explain how the patents resulted in being majorly significant in the field. The letter, for example, does 
not show how the patents have impacted or influenced the field in a major manner. Furthermore, 
although O-R-listed five patents "where [the Beneficiary] has filed for patents to protect inventions," 
the letter does not indicate whether any of the patents have been commercialized or utilized by P-or 
has otherwise garnered widespread attention from the field. 
Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes major, 
significant contributions to the field. 7 Evidence that the person's work was fonded, patented, or 
published, while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its 
own, that the work is ofmajor significance to the field. 8 Evidence that the person developed a patented 
5 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
6 Id. 
7 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
8 Id. 
3 
technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance 
of the person's original contribution to the field. 9 Here, the Petitioner did not show how any of the 
patents involving the Beneficiary have been widely implemented throughout the field, has remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or has otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved 0-1 nonimmigrant visa 
petitions filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 10 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish 
the Beneficiary satisfies the criteria relating to original contributions. 
Although the Petitioner also claims the Beneficiary's eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach 
these additional grounds because the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 11 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the 
Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
9 Id. 
10 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(3). 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 
by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021), ~ff'd, 2023 WL 1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023)(determining that EB-1 visas 
are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and 
he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing the Beneficiary among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2024 In Re: 34576161 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a goalkeeper director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a goalkeeper director, intends to continue his activities as a goalkeeper director and 
coach in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Although the Petitioner claimed to meet the plain language 
requirements of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) related to published materials (iii), 
judging (iv), leading or critical role (viii), and high salary (ix), the Director determined that he satisfied 
none of them. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for these four criteria and asserts that the Director's 
decision was erroneous. The Petitioner contends that the Director did not review and consider the 
evidence submitted in support of the petition, specifically noting that the Director improperly 
disregarded pieces of relevant documentary evidence and did not properly acknowledge and analyze 
all of the evidence submitted. 
Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case because the 
Director's decision is insufficient for review. 
An officer must fully explain the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow a petitioner a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate 
review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding 
that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
2 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Here, for the reasons discussed 
above, the Director's decision did not adequately explain the reasons for denial. 
The criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires evidence ofpublished material about an individual 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for 
which classification is sought. The Petitioner submitted articles and evidence regarding circulation 
statistics for the publications in which the articles appeared, but the Director concluded that such 
evidence was not probative. Upon review, the decision does not reflect that the Director fully reviewed 
the evidence in reaching this conclusion. For instance, the Director stated that because the submitted 
articles did not contain a legible URL, the articles were deemed to be unreliable and were not given 
any evidentiary weight under this criterion. The Director further determined that some articles did not 
list an author and therefore did not warrant consideration. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges the lack of an author in certain articles but argues that the 
Director erred by not affording individual consideration to other article(s) that did identify an author. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director's "bare-boned" analysis erroneously concluded that the 
articles were not supported by evidence of circulation statistics of the publications when in fact such 
evidence had been submitted and ignored by the Director. The Director did not provide sufficient 
explanation for the blanket rejection of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion and is 
instructed to re-evaluate the evidence on remand. 
Regarding the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the 
Director's decision did not address the evidence he submitted with any specificity and instead 
summarily concluded that the evidence was insufficient. We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that 
it is difficult to discern based on the Director's decision what specific evidence was considered in 
reaching this determination. As the decision only vaguely concluded that "simply performing one's 
job-related duties demonstrates competency but is not evidence that his 'achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise,"' without specifically identifying the evidence considered, the 
Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and all evidence submitted in support of those 
claims when evaluating this criterion on remand. The Petitioner's evidence in support ofthis criterion 
included a certificate from the City ofl Istating that the Petitioner served as a judge for four 
years on a panel of seven professionals, a letter from the Town Hall ofI I attesting to this role 
as well as a copy of their rules regarding jury selection, and other supporting evidence. 
In evaluating the Petitioner's claim that he served in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner 
asserts that the Director erred by misapplying the law and disregarding submitted evidence. The 
Director stated that the Petitioner did not provide detailed information regarding how his role was 
leading or critical for an "entire organization." The Director's analysis is incorrect as USCIS policy 
states that the leading or critical role may be "for an organization, establishment, or a division or 
department of an organization or establishment." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In addition, despite the Petitioner's submission of eleven letters and nine supporting exhibits, the 
Director simply stated with respect to this criterion that "the evidence only indicated that he 
participated in the creation and execution of the training methodology; improved the level of 
3 
goalkeeping methodology and scouting network; and stood out for his delicate treatment." The 
Petitioner argues on appeal that this single sentence indicates that the documents submitted in support 
of this criterion were not fully considered or afforded due consideration. We agree that the Director's 
decision lacks specific discussion of the letters and the supporting evidence meant to support his 
assertions. On remand, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted under this criterion. 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), which requires evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field, contradicts USCIS 
policy. Specifically, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's decision erred by requiring him to present 
evidence of actual wages earned and erroneously discounted his offer of employment. 
Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner's assertion. The Director's decision stated that an 
"employment offer is not evidence of wages earned because it is not always paid out. Therefore this 
evidence cannot be included in the salary calculations." Contrary to the Director's determination, 
USCIS does not interpret the phrase "has commanded" to mean that the person must have already 
earned such salary or remuneration in order to meet the criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l). Rather, a credible job offer showing prospective wages may establish a petitioner's 
ability to command a high salary in their field. Id. Therefore, we also remand this matter for the 
Director to re-examine the evidence submitted under this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by not affording consideration to the fact that the 
Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. 
Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the 
Petitioner, we note that the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, and case law. Many 
Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, 
e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 
(E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41(2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS 
service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although the decision contains a brief analysis for each of the four criteria addressed, the Director's 
discussions of each criteria contain few or no references to the specific evidence considered. 
Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner was not adequately informed of the Director's reasons for 
determining that none of the materials submitted in support of four criteria satisfy the regulatory 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We will also remand this matter for the Director to re-examine 
the evidence submitted under the four criteria considered in the denial decision. 
4 
ORDER: The decision ofthe Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry ofa new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2024 In Re: 34693081 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Exceptional Ability) 
The Petitioner, a retail manager, seeks first preference immigrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 
U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to 
those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did 
not establish that the Petitioner satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the 
evidence. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions 
in this matter de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon 
de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can 
demonstrate sustained acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th 
Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number ofcriteria, considered in the context ofa final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSTS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established her receipt of a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the regulatory criteria. The Petitioner claims 
that she meets five of the regulatory criteria, namely that she had received a lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized award or prize, that she had participated as a judge of others work, that 
she made original contributions of major significance, that she has performed in a leading or 
critical role for a distinguished organization or establishment, and that she had a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
(iv), (v), (viii), and (ix). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish any of the claimed criteria. Upon de 
novo review, we agree with the Director's determination. 
Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the 
field ofendeavor 
This evidentiary standard requires "[d]ocumentation of the [noncitizen's] receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). When assessing whether a petitioner meets this criterion, users first 
determines whether they received prizes or awards. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. users then examines whether 
their rewards were "in the field of endeavor" and "nationally or internationally recognized." Id. 
Considerations include: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; their national or 
international significance; the number ofrecipients; and any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner presented several work-related training certificates, a letter from her former 
employer,~-----~ stating she was chosen as Employee of the Year, and another letter 
stating she was the recipient of her employer's Employee Referral A ward. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that the awards she received were lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
2 
In regards to the work training certificates, they reflect that they were presented for the completion 
of training, and therefore are not awards or prizes. Moreover, the Petitioner has not presented 
sufficient evidence that the remaining awards she received are lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence. In support of the criterion, the Petitioner presented two letters 
from her former employer. The letters explain that she received the Employee of the Year and 
Employee Referral awards and discuss generally the Petitioner's actions that led to her receipt of 
the awards but provided no further detail on the awards. The Petitioner also provided a copy of 
the "About" page from her former employer's website. This evidence demonstrates that the 
company manages a portfolio of companies across several industries but does not provide further 
information. The Petitioner did not present other additional evidence on the awards, such as 
evidence explaining the company's criteria, the awards national or international significance, the 
number of awardees or recipients, limitations on competitors, or similar information. 
Based on the record presented there is not sufficient information on the awards to determine ifthey 
are lesser nationally or internationally recognized prized or awards. The Petitioner contends that 
the awards she received should be considered as having national significance as they were issued 
by~------~ which she claims has "significant influence across the entire field." 
However, contentions require support to underpin them, as assertions themselves do not constitute 
evidence. See, e.g., Matter of S-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998) ("statements in a brief, 
motion, or Notice of Appeal are not evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). 
The Petitioner's evidence is not adequate to support her arguments. As such, the Petitioner has 
not established the criterion. 
Participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the same or an 
allied field ofspec(fication for which class(fication is sought 
To establish this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have not only been invited to judge the 
work ofothers, but also that the petitioner actually participated in the judging ofthe work ofothers 
in the same or allied field of specialization. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at 
F.2(B). For example, a petitioner might document the person's peer review work by submitting a 
copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the review, accompanied by evidence 
confirming that the person actually completed the review. Id. 
The Petitioner claims that she "serve[ d] as a judge at the prestigious high-profile fashion shows." 
To support her claim, the Petitioner presented letters from her past employer. The letters are not 
consistent with the Petitioner's description of her role. The letters describe how the Petitioner 
"[i]n this role, she was responsible for selecting models" for fashion shows as part of her 
employment. The Petitioner selecting models to work at fashion shows does not constitute acting 
as a judge of the work ofothers, in the retail or an allied field, as required under the plain language 
of the criterion. The Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish how this action 
would constitute the judging of the work of others in hers or an allied field. Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established the criterion. 
3 
Original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the.field 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must submit"[ e ]vidence ofthe [ non citizen's] original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 
e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). users first determines whether a noncitizen has made original 
contributions in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8). If so, users 
should then determine whether any are of "major significance." Id. 
Evidence ofsignificant contributions can include published research that has provoked widespread 
commentary on its importance from others in the field, or documentation that research generated 
a high amount of citations relative to others' work in the field. Id. When determining whether 
original contributions have major significance, detailed letters from experts in the field explaining 
the nature and significance of the contributions may provide valuable context, especially if 
accompanied by corroborating documentation. Id. 
The appeal brief contends that the Petitioner's work for I I constituted a 
contribution ofmajor significance. To establish this criterion, the Petitioner presented letters from 
her past employer explaining her roles and responsibilities during her employment. However, the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate how the Petitioner's work for this company was an 
original contribution to her field or of major significance. The roles described in the letters, such 
as curating relevant product collections and developing a new sales technique for her team, 
certainly assisted the company. Yet the letters lack farther details as to how such actions were 
original contributions to the overall field, or of major significance. Thus, the record does not 
contain sufficient information to establish the criterion. 
Peiformed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation 
When adjudicating this requirement, users first determines whether a petitioner has performed 
in a leading or critical role for an organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at F .2(8). A leading role means that the person is ( or was) a leader within the 
organization or establishment. Id. In contrast, a petitioner in a critical role "has contributed in a 
way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities." Id. A petitioner's role, rather than their title, determines whether their role is ( or was) 
critical. Id. 
Second, users determines whether the organization or establishment for which a petitioner holds 
( or held) a leading or critical role has a distinguished reputation. Id. users policy reflects that 
organizations or establishments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8) ( citing to the 
definition of distinguished, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam­
webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying both these 
elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
4 
The appeal brief claims this criterion based on the Petitioner's role at~-----~ After 
reviewing the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner's role with this company was 
not leading or critical. In support of the criterion, the Petitioner presented letters from her former 
employer. While these documents explain that the Petitioner was a good employee, they do not 
adequately convey how the Petitioner's position as a senior sales representative was leading or 
critical was leading or critical to the company. 
Furthermore, she has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the company has a 
distinguished reputation. To establish the company's reputation, the Petitioner provided several 
letters from employees at the company discussing the Petitioner's work and a copy of the "About" 
page from their website. The letters explain that the company works in retail across several 
different brands. The website states that the company manages a portfolio of companies across 
several industries. Nevertheless, this evidence does not provide further information on the 
company's reputation. On the record available, the Petitioner has not satisfactorily demonstrated 
that the company has a distinguished reputation. Thus, she has not established the criterion. 
Has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to 
others in the field 
The Petitioner presented two statements from her past employers detailing her past salaries and 
statistics from the Glassdoor website noting the salary for a retail manager, assistant manager, and 
a sales executive in Qatar. We observe that the evidence presented from Glassdoor was published 
after the filing of the petition. A petitioner must meet all of the eligibility requirements of the 
petition at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12). Moreover, the evidence does not show 
that the relevant salary range for the periods of employment. As such, there is not sufficient 
evidence to establish that the salary the Petitioner received was high compared to others in her 
field. As such, the Petitioner has not established the criterion. 
As the Petitioner has not established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, she 
cannot be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability. Accordingly, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2024 In Re: 35563226 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner describes herself as an artist, designer, and inventor. She seeks classification under the 
employment-based, frrst-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with 
"extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this category must 
demonstrate "sustained national or international acclaim" and extensively document recognition of 
their achievements in their fields. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one of ten initial evidentiary requirements -two less than needed for a final merits 
determination. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts her satisfaction of five other evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she submitted documentation satisfying two additional evidentiary criteria: 
participation as a judge of other's work in her field; and display of her work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for a final 
merits determination and entry of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 If a petitioner meets either evidentiary standard and the other statutory 
requirements, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCTS) must then make a final merits 
determination as to whether the record, as a whole, establishes their sustained national or international 
acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small percentage at their field's very 
top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010);2 see generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
TT. ANALYSTS 
A. Facts and Procedural History 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Nigerian native and citizen, received a bachelor of science 
degree in sociology from a university in her home country. While still in school, she created her own 
fashion line, establishing a company to make handbags and accessories. Her 
and designed to raise awareness of women's issues, has drawn attention. Although 
lacking formal art education or training, she has branched out from handbags to designing sculptures 
and other artwork. 
The Petitioner states that, in the United States, she plans to continue her work in her field. She states: 
"I intend to continue in my creative endeavors and working towards major collaborations: licensing 
and distributing my works throughout the United States and globally." 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted published material about 
herself relating to her work in her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). She claims that she also 
provided evidence of: 
• Her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in her field; 
• Her membership in professional associations in the field requiring their members' outstanding 
achievements; 
• Her participation as a judge of others' work in the field; 
• Her original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• Display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 The record shows the Petitioner's residence within the ninth federal judicial circuit. Thus, we must follow applicable 
precedent decisions of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this matter. See Jama v. Immigr. & Customs 
Enf't, 543 U.S. 335, 350 n.10 (2005) ("With rare exceptions, [a federal agency] follows the law of the circuit in which the 
individual case arises"). 
2 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iv), (v), (vii). The Petitioner's evidence must "objectively meet[] 
the parameters of the regulatory description that applies to that type of evidence." 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.(2)(B). 
B. Judge of Others' Work 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit evidence oftheir "participation, either individually 
or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which 
classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). A petitioner must show that they not only 
received an invitation to judge others' work in the same or allied field, but also that they actually 
participated in the judging. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner stated that several art galleries and artists contracted her to review art and mentor artists. 
She provided letters from gallery owners and other organizations stating her work for them as a 
reviewer and mentor. She also pointed to copies of newspaper articles that she claims confirm her 
work as an art reviewer and judge. 
As the Director found, the newspaper articles do not meet this evidentiary requirement. The articles 
consist ofthe same piece about the Petitioner published in three different newspapers. In relevant part, 
the piece states: 
A designer and innovator of great repute, [the Petitioner] wields an overwhelming 
influence in the art and creative firmament in Nigeria as she has worked herself to the 
top, becoming a go-to person for those still learning the rope[s] and others seeking to 
broker new grounds through insightful knowledge in the industry. 
The piece's plain language states that the Petitioner has influenced and helped others in her field. But 
the piece does not establish that she "judged" their work. The newspaper articles therefore do not 
meet the evidentiary requirement. See Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 
10697512, *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (holding that an employer's letter describing a petitioner as "a 
consultant for the examination committee" did not demonstrate the petitioner's claimed judging 
activities in the role). 
The Director discounted the letters from art gallery owners, finding that they lacked supporting 
evidence of the Petitioner's claimed judging activities. But we do not generally require corroborating 
evidence of such non-party letters. Cf.In re Soffici, 22 I&N Dec. 158. 164-65 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998) 
( requiring documentary evidence to support a petitioner's assertion). 
A letter from one of the art gallery owners states that the Petitioner: 
has helped to develop and judge Sculptural works created by me and other partnered 
Artists as well as other Artwork contracted to us by Private Individuals and 
Government Agencies: I have engaged her knowledge[,] skill and expertise in 
determining the final outcome. 
3 
We would prefer a more detailed letter. But we find the document sufficient to meet this evidentiary 
requirement. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her participation as a judge of others' work in her field. We will 
therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
C. Display at Artistic Exhibitions or Showcases 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence of the display of the [ noncitizen] 's work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). USCIS first determines whether the displayed 
materials constitute a petitioner's work product. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
Second, the Agency determines whether the venues that displayed a petitioner's work were artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. Id. In this context, the term "exhibition" means "a public showing (as of 
works of art ... )." Exhibition, Merriam-Webster.com, www.merriam-webster.com. 
The Director found the Petitioner's evidence insufficient to demonstrate displays of her work at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases. The Director, however, disregarded printouts of art gallery websites 
showcasing the Petitioner's work. USCIS policy specifies that artistic exhibition and showcase venues 
may be "virtual or otherwise." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). The printouts submitted by the 
Petitioner were from "artistic" websites. They therefore constitute evidence of displays of her work 
at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her work's display in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary finding. 
D. Remaining Issues 
The Petitioner has satisfied at least three of the ten initial evidentiary requirements for the requested 
immigrant visa category. We therefore need not reach and hereby reserve consideration of her 
appellate arguments regarding the other evidentiary criteria she claims to have met. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 ( 1976) (stating that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
USCIS must now make a final merits determination on the Petitioner's filing. The Director did not 
make such a finding. Rather than decide the issue in the first instance, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director must determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated sustained national 
or international acclaim and recognition for her achievements in her field commensurate with one of 
that small percentage who has risen to the field's very top. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(2). The Director should consider any potentially relevant evidence ofrecord, even if it does 
not fit one of the regulatory criteria or was not presented as comparable evidence. Id. The petition's 
approval or denial should depend on the evidence's type and quality. Id. 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has met the requisite three evidentiary criteria. USCIS must now make a final merits 
determination on the petition. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for a final merits 
determination and entry of a new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 12, 2024 In Re: 35565821 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not meet 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification through presentation of evidence of either a 
one-time achievement or evidence showing that he meets at least three of the alternative evidentiary 
criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). We summarily dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent 
appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
MatteroJChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of 
proceedings at the time ofthe decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Because the scope of a motion is limited 
to the prior decision, we will only review the latest decision in these proceedings. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii). We may grant motions that satisfy the aforementioned requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On August 23, 2024, we summarily dismissed the Petitioner's appeal because it did not specifically 
identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the Director's unfavorable decision 
dated February 29, 2024. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Rather, the Petitioner alleged in a conclusory 
manner on the Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, that the Director erroneously denied the 
petition and indicated that he would submit a brief and/or additional evidence to our office within 30 
calendar days of filing the appeal. The record did not show that we had received these supplemental 
materials as of August 2024. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that he timely submitted a brief in support of his appeal, and we 
failed to consider it. He submits a copy of a brief dated April 15, 2024, a copy of a Federal Express 
mailing label with a tracking number, and proof that the package was delivered on April 16, 2024. 
However, the newly submitted evidence indicates that the Petitioner's supplemental appeal brief was 
incorrectly sent to the users Vermont Service Center rather than the Administrative Appeals Office 
(AAO). Any brief and/or evidence submitted after the filing of an appeal must be sent directly to the 
AAO as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(viii) and the filing instructions for the 
Form r-290B. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he complied with these requirements when 
submitting his supplemental brief. 
The Petitioner requests that we consider the arguments presented in his appellate brief challenging the 
Director's February 29, 2024, decision, as the brief is now incorporated in the record. However, the 
only decision properly before us on motion is our August 23, 2024, decision, and not the Director's 
earlier decision denying the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), (ii) (requiring that motions pertain 
to "the prior decision" or "the latest decision"). 
Here, the evidence provided on motion does not establish new facts relevant to our appellate decision 
that would warrant reopening of the proceedings. Further, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
our summary dismissal was based on an incorrect application of law or users policy and that our 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. Consequently, 
as the Petitioner has not established proper cause for reopening or reconsideration ofour prior decision, 
the motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The Petitioner's appeal therefore remains 
dismissed, and the underlying petition remains denied. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 20631716 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 13, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten required evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) or that she was coming to the United States to continue to work in her area of 
expertise. The Director then reopened the proceeding twice -first on the Petitioner's motion, and then 
treating the Petitioner's untimely appeal as a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(2). 
The Director denied the petition both times. We dismissed the Petitioner's subsequent appeal, finding 
that while the Petitioner did meet three of the ten evidentiary criteria, she had not demonstrated 
sustained national or international acclaim or that she was at the very top of her field of endeavor at 
the time of filing or adjudication. We then dismissed the Petitioner's motion to reconsider for the 
same reasons. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable. Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not previously been submitted in the proceeding, which includes the original application. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Motions for the reopening or reconsideration of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same 
reasons as petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered 
evidence. See INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) (citing INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). 
A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." See INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 110. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material if they are able 
to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the 
individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the 
quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of 
evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of 
the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
2 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reopen 
The first issue on motion is whether the petition should be reopened and approved based on new facts 
supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). On motion, the Petitioner provides two 
new letters of support from and ______ I singers who have 
received the immigrant visa classification that the Petitioner is requesting. The writers of these letters 
both state that the Petitioner is highly talented and prominent in thel I community 
and that since they received the requested benefit, the Petitioner should receive it as well since she is 
more famous than they are. 
Every visa adjudication applies existing law and policy to the specific facts of an individual case. The 
fact that the letter writers, like the Petitioner, are singers from I I does not establish that the 
specific circumstances of their cases were comparable to those of the Petitioner. Furthermore, a 
decision that was not published as a precedent does not bind U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3( c ). 
Additionally, the letters do not introduce new facts, as required at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We 
addressed the Petitioner's arguments and documentation regarding her popularity with the __ I I community in our prior decision, noting that this does not constitute the national or 
international level of acclaim required for the requested benefit. Since the remainder of the brief 
pertains to previously submitted evidence that was considered in our prior decisions, the Petitioner has 
not met the requirements of a motion to reopen, and the motion will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
The second issue on motion is whether our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at that time of that decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). The brief submitted on motion states that our consideration of the Petitioner's 
achievements since arriving in the United States was unsupported by policy, since petitioners can 
apply for the requested visa classification while abroad. However, this misinterprets our prior 
decision. 
The relevant regulatory requirement is not that the Petitioner demonstrate achievements in the United 
States, but that they demonstrate that they have sustained a national or international level of acclaim, 
as required at section 203(b )(1 )(A)(l) of the Act, at the time of filing and through the time of 
adjudication. 11 Our prior decision stated that while the Petitioner enjoyed a successful career in 
her qualifying accomplishments dated from 2016 and earlier, and she had not maintained a 
qualifying level of acclaim through the time the petition was filed in 2018. The Petitioner had been 
residing in the United States for over a year at the time she filed the underlying petition and for over 
four years at the time of our prior decision. It was therefore appropriate to scrutinize her time in the 
1 An applicant or petitioner must establish that they are eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit 
request and must continue to be eligible through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
3 
United States to determine whether she continued to be at the very top of her field of endeavor. As 
noted in the USCIS Policy Manual, if a person was recognized for a particular achievement, USCIS 
should determine whether the person continues to maintain a comparable level of acclaim in the field 
of expertise since the person was originally afforded that recognition. A person may, for example, 
have achieved national or international acclaim in the past but then failed to maintain a comparable 
level of acclaim thereafter. See generally 2 USCIS Policy Manual A.l, https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
The Petitioner also states that we erred by stating that she participated in the I movie I las an actor, since she was hired for the role based on her fame as a singer, which demonstrates 
her eligibility. Our prior decision addressed this argument and acknowledged the Petitioner's success 
in prior to moving to the United States. However, as previously explained, the record does 
not establish that she sustained a qualifying level of acclaim through 2018, when she filed the 
underlying petition. The Petitioner participated inl I in 2015. Characterizing her role as a 
singing one instead of an acting one does not overcome the issue of her level of acclaim at the time of 
filing. 
Finally, the Petitioner states that letter of support demonstrates that our prior 
decision "misapplies the standards and criteria" for the requested benefit, sincel I 
received the requested benefit but believes the Petitioner to be more famous and deserving. We 
disagree. A motion to reconsider must show that our prior decision was incorrect based on the 
evidence on record at the time of our prior decision, and I letter was not part of that 
record. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Furthermore, as explained above, every visa adjudication is based on 
the individual circumstances of a particular case, and the record does not establish that I I case is comparable to that of the Petitioner. I I assessment of the 
Petitioner's fame in comparison to herself therefore does not establish that we misapplied any law or 
policy in our prior decision. 
The Petitioner has not met the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, the motion will be 
dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 13, 2023 In Re: 28805817 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a research geophysicist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center initially approved the petition. However, the Director 
subsequently revoked the approval, determining the Petitioner knowingly made a false representation 
of a material fact in support of his petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
With respect to revocations, section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155, states, in pertinent part, that the 
Secretary of Homeland Security "may, at any time, for what he deems to be good and sufficient cause, 
revoke the approval of any petition approved by him under section 204." Regarding revocation on 
notice, the Board of Immigration Appeals has stated: 
In Matter ofEstime, ... this Board stated that a notice of intention to revoke a visa 
petition is properly issued for "good and sufficient cause" where the evidence of record 
at the time the notice is issued, if unexplained and unrebutted, would warrant a denial 
of the visa petition based upon the petitioner's failure to meet his burden of proof. The 
decision to revoke will be sustained where the evidence of record at the time the 
decision is rendered, including any evidence or explanation submitted by the petitioner 
in rebuttal to the notice of intention to revoke, would warrant such denial. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 590 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter ofEstime, 19 I&N Dec. 450 (BIA 
1987)). 
By itself, the Director's realization that a petition was incorrectly approved is good and sufficient 
cause for the revocation of the approval of an immigrant petition. Id. The approval of a visa petition 
vests no rights in the beneficiary of the petition, as approval of a visa petition is but a preliminary step 
in the visa application process. Id. at 589. A beneficiary is not, by mere approval of the petition, 
entitled to an immigrant visa. Id. 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time offiling the petition in December 2015, the Petitioner stated he was employed as a research 
physicist atl land indicated his work was focused on seismic modeling, imaging, 
and anisotropy. He received his doctor of philosophy degree in earth science atl ~ 
2 
The Petitioner did not initially indicate or establish that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, but sought to satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet the criteria relating to judging the work 
of others, original contributions of major significance, and authorship of scholarly articles. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi). In support of his claims of meeting those criteria and 
demonstrating his sustained national and international acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized through extensive documentation, the Petitioner submitted evidence including completed 
independent requests to review a number of manuscripts for professional publications; expert 
recommendation letters; his scholarly articles; and articles that have cited to his work. 
Ultimately, the Director approved the petition in January 2016, and the Petitioner was granted lawful 
permanent resident status on April 18, 2016, with a USCIS lawful permanent resident class code of 
E 16. In November 2020 the U.S. Embassy in Guangzhou returned the petition to the Director and 
recommended revocation. On March 30, 2023, the Director issued a notice ofintent to revoke (NOIR) 
and informed the Petitioner of the following: 
The Department of State returned the I-140 to USCIS because it appeared that the 
beneficiary was not eligible for the requested benefit OR after a review of the record, 
it appears that the petitioner did not submit relevant, probative, and credible evidence 
to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the beneficiary is eligible for the 
requested benefit. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369 (AAO 2010) and any 
other fact. Therefore, USCTS intends to revoke the approval of Form T-140. 
In this case the following issues independently form the basis for this intended 
revocation and will be discussed in this notice: 
• Fraud was found within the petitioners submitted documentation by the 
[N]ational Visa Center Fraud Prevention Unit. 
In accordance to the memorandum return[ed] to the Texas Service Center from the 
National Visa Center, dated November 18, 2020, it states the beneficiary submitted 
fraudulent documents to establish that it has satisfied each adjudicative element to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit indicating that the beneficiary is one ofthe 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Furthermore, the Director discussed the qualifying documentation that may satisfy the initial evidence 
requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and stated: 
If the beneficiary believes the beneficiary qualifies under any of the regulatory criteria 
that USCIS has determined that the beneficiary has failed to establish eligibility under, 
or any additional regulatory criteria, the beneficiary should submit clarifying evidence, 
or submit additional evidence in response to this portion of the notice o[±1 intent to 
deny. 
3 
As the beneficiary has not submitted evidence to demonstrate the beneficiary has met 
at least three of the 10 regulatory criteria. 
USCIS must now examine the evidence presented in its entirety to make a final merits 
determination of whether or not the beneficiary, by a preponderance of the evidence, 
has demonstrated that the beneficiary possesses the high level of expertise required for 
the E 11 immigrant classification. 
As discussed, USCIS has evaluated the evidence and determined that the evidence does 
not establish that the beneficiary is an individual of extraordinary ability in accordance 
with 203(b)(l)(A)(l) of the INA. 
In conclusion, the petitioner did not establish that it has satisfied each adjudicative 
element to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. Therefore, the following 
issues independently form the basis for this intended revocation: 
• Fraud was found within the petitioners submitted documentation by the [N]ational 
Visa Center Fraud Prevention Unit. 
In response to the NOIR, the Petitioner asserted that he did not commit fraud in relation to the filing 
of his petition and that he has demonstrated his eligibility for classification as an induvial of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. He argued, through counsel, that although the NOIR indicates 
the existence of derogatory evidence in the form of "fraudulent documents," it "fails to state which 
allegedly fraudulent documents were submitted" and "thus the Petitioner can only guess as to what 
the issue may be." Citing Matter of Estime, the Petitioner asserted that since the NOIR contains 
unsupported statements and he has not been advised of the derogatory evidence, "revocation of the 
visa petition cannot be sustained." Further, he provided documentation that "explained and rebutted 
any potential allegation of fraud based on his work experience since it was noted directly on his I-20 
and has also provided evidence through W-2 forms." 
The Petitioner also submitted "supplemental evidence showing that he satisfies at lease three of the 
ten criteria," including evidence of serving as a book editor, a Google Scholar Profile now showing 
453 total citations to his published work, evidence of two granted and three pending patents, and 
additional peer-reviewed abstracts in scholarly publications. Moreover, the Petitioner provided 
documentation in support of his claim to meet two additional criteria, relating to leading or critical 
role and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and (ix). 
In revoking the petition's approval, the Director stated: 
On March 22, 2023, [USCIS] issued a Notice oflntent to Revoke[] the approval of the 
Form I-140 petition to the petitoner. 
In view of the above, USCIS has revoked the approval of this Form I-140 petition. 
4 
If, upon reconsideration, the approval previously granted is revoked, the director shall provide the 
petitioner or the self-petitioner with a written notification of the decision that explains the specific 
reasons for revocation. 8 C.F.R. § 205.2(c). Because the Director did not properly revoke the 
approved petition, we will remand the matter for the following reasons. 
In the NOIR, the Director referenced "fraudulent documents," however, the Director did not 
specifically identify the documents. Moreover, although the NOIR mentioned the initial evidence 
requirements listed at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3), the Director did not discuss why the Petitioner did not 
fulfill at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. Instead, the Director generally stated the Petitioner 
"did not establish that it has satisfied each adjudicative element to establish eligibility for the requested 
benefit." Here, the Director did not provide the Petitioner sufficient information that specifically 
explained the proposed grounds for revocation. 
In the revocation, the Director did not acknowledge the Petitioner's submission of documentation and 
did not explain why the evidence did not overcome the grounds in the NOIR. In addition, the Director 
did not address the Petitioner's arguments made in response to the NOTR. Moreover, while she 
indicated the fraudulent documents called into question the Petitioner's satisfaction of at least three of 
the ten regulatory criteria, the Director did not further elaborate and conduct an analysis of these 
criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Director did not properly revoke the approved petition. The NOIR and notice of revocation lack 
adequate factual support for the Director's determination that the Petitioner submitted fraudulent 
documents to establish eligibility for classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. The NOTR 
did not provide the Petitioner with sufficient notice and explanation of any specific facts that raised 
concerns regarding the Petitioner's eligibility for the requested classification. Additionally, the final 
revocation notice did not address the rebuttal claims and evidence the Petitioner provided. Further, 
Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence submitted in support of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and explanation why the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate he satisfied these initial evidence requirements. We will therefore remand the matter to 
the Director to issue a new NOIR, covering these issues and also considering the additional arguments 
on appeal. Any future NOIR must include "a specific statement not only of the facts underlying the 
proposed action, but also of the supporting evidence." Estime, 19 T&N Dec. at 451. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 14, 2023 In Re: 28946956 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a public prosecutor and specialist in institutional policy and technology innovation, 
seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not 
establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , provided that the individual seeks to enter the United States to continue 
work in the area of extraordinary ability, and the individual's entry into the United States will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material m certain media, and 
commercial successes). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner is a lawyer who completed his graduate legal education at I ~ where he 
earned his master of laws (LLM) and doctor of juridical science (SJD) degrees. The 
public I record reflects 
that he has spent 
I, most of his professional career as a prosecutor within the II where he has led several innovation initiatives. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he was required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to 
judging the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles in the field, and performed in a leading or 
critical role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
As the Petitioner demonstrated that he met the initial evidence requirements, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a 
petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this very high 
standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or did not properly evaluate evidence in 
the record which establishes that he meets additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and 
otherwise qualifies under the high standards of this immigrant visa classification. He farther contends 
the Director did not adhere to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, did not 
adequately explain why the submitted evidence was deemed insufficient to meet the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (v), and did not consider the totality of the evidence in the record when 
conducting the final merits analysis. We agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The Director's final 
merits analysis did not consider the record in its entirety and is lacking a detailed discussion of the 
evidence provided in support of the petition. Further, as emphasized by the Petitioner on appeal, it is 
unclear whether or to what extent the Director considered the Petitioner's detailed response to a request 
for evidence, as that evidence is not referenced in the decision. 
Although the Petitioner submitted evidence relating to six of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the final merits discussion only briefly addresses evidence related to three of the 
criteria, rather than considering the evidence in its totality. Specifically, the Director's decision did 
2 
not meaningfully address the evidence relating to the Petitioner's awards, published materials about 
him, and contributions to his field and whether that evidence, individually or collectively, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that he is among the small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. All evidence must be considered in a final merits determination 
as some evidence is more persuasive when viewed together with other evidence. 
Because the Director did not properly consider all the Petitioner's evidence in the final merits analysis, 
the decision did not sufficiently address why he did not demonstrate his eligibility for the requested 
classification. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual 
( stating that in the final merits determination, USCIS officers should evaluate all the evidence together 
when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if a petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See, e.g., Matter 
of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for 
denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on 
appeal). Here, because the decision was based on an incomplete review of the record, the Petitioner 
was not provided with a sufficient explanation of the reasons for denial as a basis for his appeal. 
For the above reasons, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should review the Petitioner's appeal, 
which includes claims that the Director overlooked evidence that established his eligibility under the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) and (v), and additional evidence relating to these criteria. 
Further, as the Director has already determined that the Petitioner met at least three criteria, they should 
evaluate whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. The new decision should include a final 
merits analysis of the totality of the record, including the evidence submitted in support of all claimed 
initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and any other potentially relevant evidence. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 14, 2023 In Re: 27007829 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three often initial evidentiary criteria, and that he will 
continue to work in his claimed area of expertise in the United States, as required. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I.LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Congress set a very high 
benchmark for aliens of extraordinary ability by requiring that the Petitioner demonstrate "sustained 
national or international acclaim" by presenting "extensive documentation" of the alien's 
achievements. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (Jul. 5, 1991). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition of his or 
her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a native and citizen of Kazakhstan, claims to be a singer and composer, who has 
authored musical albums, won awards, and performed at international venues. He entered the United 
States in June 2021 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor. 
A. Willful Misrepresentation of Material Facts 
Before we discuss the merits of the appeal and the underlying petition, we begin with a finding that the 
Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in this proceeding. 
Misrepresentation ofa material fact may lead to multiple consequences in immigration proceedings. Any 
noncitizen who, by fraud or willfully misrepresenting a material fact, seeks to procure ( or has sought to 
procure or has procured) a visa, other documentation, or admission into the United States or other benefit 
provided under the Act is inadmissible. Section 212(a)(6)(C)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1182(a)(6)(C)(i). 
Under Board oflmmigration Appeals precedent, a material misrepresentation is one which "tends to shut 
off a line of inquiry which is relevant to the alien's eligibility, and which might well have resulted in a 
proper determination that he be excluded." Matter ofS-and B-C-, 9 I&N Dec. 436, 447 (BIA 1961). 
A willful misrepresentation requires that the individual knowingly make a material misstatement to a 
government official for the purpose of obtaining an immigration benefit to which one is not entitled. 
Sergueeva v. Holder, 324 Fed. Appx. 76 (2d Cir. 2009) (citing Matter ofKai Hing Hui, 15 I&N Dec. 
288, 289-90 (BIA 1975). Material misrepresentation requires only a false statement that is material and 
willfully made. See 9 FAM 40.63 N2; see also Matter of Tijam, 22 I&N Dec. 408, 424 (BIA 1998) 
(en bane) (Rosenberg, concurring). The term "willfully" means knowing and intentionally, as 
2 
distinguished from accidentally, inadvertently, or in an honest belief that the facts are otherwise. See 
Matter ofHealy and Goodchild, 17 I&N Dec. 22, 28 (BIA 1979). 
As evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards under the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), he initially submitted cell phone 
pictures of himself holding what appears to be a certificate of an award given to him in New York for 
best composer. The Director questioned the authenticity of this award since the record lacked 
information about the award and the awarding organization. Furthermore, the cell phone picture 
appeared staged and included the caption "first time in New York." This gave the impression that this 
was a pictured staged while the Petitioner was on vacation in the U.S. (per his non-immigrant Bl/B2 
visa). 
Similarly, the Petitioner also submitted pictures of himself holding other award certificates or 
statuettes, yet these photos displayed documents written in a foreign language (un-translated) and/or 
illegible text. The record was not supported by information about these awards and the organizations 
that bestowed them to him. 
The Director issued a notice ofhis intention to deny the petition (NOID) which discussed his concerns 
with this evidence and requested more information about these awards, such as information about the 
organizations that bestowed these awards to the Petitioner, documentation from the awarding 
organizations establishing his receipt of these awards, major media articles about the awarding events, 
and major media articles establishing that these are prestigious awards or prizes recognizing musicians 
or singers. In the NOID, the Director also requested that the Petitioner submit high resolution color 
photos of the front and back of the actual award (not pictures of a cell phone screen). While the 
Petitioner provided a respond to the NOID, he did not provide the requested evidence about these 
awards. "Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be 
grounds for denying the [petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
The Director denied the petition, in part, because the Petitioner submitted evidence that appeared to 
be fabricated in order to establish that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. We issued 
our own NOID in November 2023 taking note of the irregularities in the evidence provided by the 
Petitioner in the record before the Director and gave the Petitioner another opportunity to provide 
evidence to rebut this information. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l6)(i). While the Petitioner responded to our 
NOID, he did not provide a narrative explanation, supported by probative evidence to overcome our 
concerns that the evidence provided about the Petitioner's awards was fabricated. "Failure to submit 
requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the 
[petition]." 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). The information in the falsified awards is material to the petition 
because it relates to eligibility for the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Additionally, the Director denied the petition because the Petitioner did not submit clear evidence that 
he was coming to the United States to continue working in his claimed area of expertise, such as 
prearranged commitments and a statement detailing his plans to establish how he will continue to work 
in his profession in the U.S., as required by 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5). The Director noted in the denial that 
he had requested documentary evidence establishing such in the NOID but the Petitioner was not 
responsive to his request. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14). 
3 
In our NOID we noted that the Petitioner provided evidence on appeal to address this deficiency inl 
the record. Specifically, he offered promotional material about a film production entitled '10,"(G-T-) which suggested that American film producer! l(Mr. F-) is producing 
this film. The material highlights that Mr. F was the producer of the I I films. We 
observed that the Petitioner filed this appeal in February 2023 and provided evidence about this film 
project at that time, including promotional material for this film, an executed January 2023 "composer 
agreement" between the Petitioner and I I (Mr. Z-) requiring the Petitioner to compose 
the musical score for G-T-, and an executed January 2023 "composer-singer deal term sheet" between 
the Petitioner and Mr. Z-s' production company,! lwhich requires a payment of 
$50,000 to the Petitioner and compensation to him for certain travel expenses so that he can complete 
this work. The contractual documents indicated that the Petitioner will be paid $10,000 either upon 
the signing of these agreements or when he starts work on the musical score. $25,000 would be paid 
to him when recording of the score commenced, followed by $15,000 when his services were 
complete. The agreements called for final recording services for the musical score to start on 
November, 1, 2023 and conclude on December 3, 2023. 
We noted that Mr. F-passed away in November 2022, months prior to the Petitioner's submission of 
material about this film project in support of the appeal. See Mike Barnes, [Mr. F-J,I I 
The Hollywood Reporter (November 21, 2022), 
https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/movies/movie-news ._____________ ___,I I According to this article, Mr. F-passed away the day before the article was 
published. The article displays a picture of Mr. F-captioned as being provided by Mr. F-'s widow to 
the Hollywood Reporter. Notably this picture is also displayed in the film's promotional material that 
the Petitioner submitted in support of the appeal. 
In our NOID we explained that the submission of this material -which states that Mr. F-is to produce 
the G-T-film months after he passed away -raises questions about the credibility of the Petitioner's 
documentation. Based on our review ofthe record it appeared that this evidence was fabricated by the 
Petitioner to establish that he had prearranged commitments to provide services in his field of 
endeavor. We informed the Petitioner that he must resolve this inconsistency and ambiguity in the 
record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). We notified the Petitioner that based in part on this derogatory 
information, we intended to dismiss the appeal, and we gave him an opportunity to submit additional 
evidence to rebut this information. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(i). 
We asked the Petitioner to provide affidavits from the G-T-film's other producers listed in the 
promotional materials, (Mr. A-and Mr. Z-), in which they were to: (1) describe the nature of the 
Petitioner's involvement in the G-T-film project, (2) address their plans for producing this film 
without Mr. F-, (3) give the current status of the film project, and (4) provide copies of current 
promotional material for the film. Additionally, we asked for documentary evidence of the $10,000 
that was to be paid to the Petitioner per the submitted composer agreements on or about January 2023, 
including a copy of his bank statements and other documents to show his receipt of these funds and 
their source. We noted the composer agreements indicated that the Petitioner will be responsible for 
costs incurred to develop and deliver the film's musical score, including the costs to obtain musicians, 
studio time, mixing, tape and other materials. We asked for a listing of the costs that the Petitioner 
has incurred to date under this agreement, documentary evidence of his payment of those costs, and 
4 
copies of his executed contracts with others, such as the music studios and musicians needed to 
complete the work. In response to the NOID, the Petitioner provided a statement describing the current 
status of the G-T-film project, as follows: 
In the film industry, there are various types of producers, each with distinct roles. Some 
focus solely on development, others on post-production, while some oversee all stages 
of production. [Mr. F-'s] involvement in a project often resulted in a successfully 
packaged film, uniquely positioned for optimal distribution. . . . At the time of his 
passing, [Fr. F-] had eight projects in development. His name remains attached to each 
ofthese, and they are set to be released posthumously. His family will receive royalties, 
as these films will still be recognized as '[Mr. F-] pictures."' 
While the Petitioner asserts that the G-T-project is proceeding without Mr. F-he did not provide 
contemporaneous, documentary evidence to show that G-T-is an ongoing film production. We 
specifically, asked for updated materials about the development of the G-T film, including affidavits 
from the other film producers who are overseeing the creation of the film discussing the Petitioner's 
involvement in this project, documentation of the remittance of payment to the Petitioner for 
composing the musical score for the film and evidence of his payment of project expenses in 
accordance with his submitted "composer agreement" with Mr. Z-, and current promotional materials 
for G-T-. However, the Petitioner has not provided documentary evidence to support his assertions 
that G-T-is currently in film production, and that he is engaged as a composer to produce the musical 
score for G-T -, as asserted on appeal. 
It is the petitioner's responsibility and burden to resolve any inconsistencies in the record with 
independent objective evidence and attempts to explain or reconcile such inconsistencies will not sufiice 
without competent objective evidence pointing to where the truth, in fact, lies. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. at 582. The Petitioner's response to the NOID does not meet this standard. We conclude, therefore, 
that the material presented about the G-T-film project, including the G-T-promotional materials, power 
point presentation, composer agreement, and the composer-singer deal term sheet, were falsified in order 
to support the Petitioner's fraudulent claims on appeal. The information in the falsified G-T­
documentation is material to the petition because it was submitted to establish how the Petitioner will 
continue to work in his profession in the U.S. as required by 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(5). 
For the above reasons, we find that the Petitioner willfully misrepresented material facts in seeking to 
procure a benefit under the Act. Our finding may render him inadmissible in future proceedings where 
admissibility is an issue. For efficiency's sake, we incorporate the above discussion and analysis 
regarding this derogatory information into each of the bases in this decision for dismissing the appeal. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director reviewed the evidence offered initially and in response to his NOID and determined 
that while the Petitioner provided evidence to meet five of the criteria, awards (i), membership (ii), 
published material (iii),judging (iv), and contributions ofmajor significance (v), he did not meet any 
5 
of them. In the denial, the Director provided a detailed analysis and explanation addressing these 
criteria individually and explained why the evidence provided was insufficient to satisfy them. 
On appeal, the Petitioner generally discusses his career accomplishments, claiming without 
supporting probative evidence that he is "the author of 300 works that make a great contribution to the 
development of music and creativity in the Republic of Kazahstan," has received awards, and has 
performed internationally in countries such as France, Germany, and Malaysia. However, the 
Petitioner does not directly address this critical aspect of the Director's decision -i.e., he fails to 
identify a specific error in the Director's decision when he determined that the Petitioner did not meet 
at least three of the ten regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the means to remedy what they 
perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a previous proceeding. See 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). By presenting only generalized statements of eligibility without explaining 
the specific aspects of the Director's decision they consider to be incorrect, the Petitioner has failed to 
identify the basis for contesting this requirement on appeal. Since the Petitioner did not address this 
issue with specificity on appeal, we deem the issue waived and affirm the Director's conclusion that 
the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012) and 
finding when a filing party mentions an issue without developing an argument, the issue is deemed 
waived). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
probative documentation that meets at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
C. Coming to Work in the Field of Expertise 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) requires "clear evidence that the alien is coming to the United 
States to continue work in the area of expertise. Such evidence may include letter(s) from prospective 
employer(s), evidence of prearranged commitments such as contracts, or a statement from the 
beneficiary detailing plans on how he or she intends to continue his or her work in the United States." 
The Petitioner initially stated in Part 6 of the petition that he plans "to open my own production 
company. Multiply my achievements in the art. Produce songs [a]s an artist, director." In his NOID, 
the Director observed that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence of prearranged 
commitments or offer statements detailing his prospective plans to continue to work in his field. The 
Director asked for documentary evidence establishing such. In response, the Petitioner offered a new 
plan, indicating that he intends to "open an [ a ]rt [ s ]chool for Kazakh children. To study national songs, 
national cultural lyrics, national cultural art support center. Also, as a singer/people's artist I'm usually 
invited to charity concerts, events, celebrations to perform..." 
6 
I The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence 
of prearranged commitments or otherwise sufficiently detail his work prospective work plans to meet 
the "clear evidence" requirements at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). 
On appeal, the Petitioner newly asserts that he is organizing "a [ musical] tour called I~-----~ 
I which will feature his music during live performances in the United States and in Europe. 
We acknowledged his plans in our NOID and asked the Petitioner to provide documentary evidence 
to illustrate the steps he has taken to organize this tour, including its source of fonding, tour itinerary, 
and the contracts that he has executed with production companies to support his tour operations in the 
U.S. and abroad. In his December 2023 response to the NOID, the Petitioner avers: 
Regarding my musical tour call '~--------~" in the United States and 
European countries: Everything remains in effect, but due to the pandemic, many 
preliminary agreements have been postponed for unknown period including on my 
initiative. Since in order to perform this tour, I need to be able to travel from [the 
United States to Europe] and be able to return to the United States. I was waiting for 
my permits/documents and relied on this factor to plan the tour with exact dates, 
countries, cities. 
Notably, the Petitioner has not provided evidence to show that his ability to travel within the United 
States and abroad is being prospectively curtailed by domestic and international travel restrictions 
related to the eovid-19 pandemic. Further, users records reflect that the Petitioner received 
authorization to work in the United States in September 2022 (months prior to filing the appeal) and 
this authorization continues through September 2024. Therefore, he has been authorized to be 
employed as a touring concert performer in the United States for well over a year, should such an 
opportunity arise. users also issued a travel document to him in February 2023 to facilitate his travel 
abroad; thus, he has been free to travel abroad and then return to the United States since that time. 
Therefore, we find the Petitioner's assertions that pandemic travel restrictions and the unavailability 
ofwork and travel permits have delayed his ability to plan and execute his concert tour to be incredible. 
Without supporting evidence to the contrary, it appears that the Petitioner may have offered fictitious 
plans to organize an international 'l I" musical tour as a sham attempt on appeal 
to meet the evidentiary requirements at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Matter ofHo, supra. 
Here, the Petitioner initially stated that he intended to start his own musical production company, later 
he claimed that he will instead open a children's art school. On appeal, he asserts that he is planning 
to embark on a musical tour to perform across the United States and in Europe but did not provide 
probative evidence to support his assertions. He also submitted falsified documents claiming to be 
employed as a musical composer for the G-T-film production. We conclude that the Petitioner's far­
flung assertions about his future plans to continue to work in his claimed area of expertise are not 
supported by probative, documentary evidence sufficient to meet the "clear evidence" requirement at 
8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
A petition can only be properly approved upon a determination that the facts stated in the petition are true. 
See section 204(b) ofthe Act, 8 U.S.e. § l 154(b). Though requested in the Director's NOID and in our 
own NOID, the above inconsistencies, discrepancies, and contradictory statements have not been 
resolved by the submission of independent, objective evidence, and diminish the reliability of the 
7 
Petitioner's claim that he is coming to the United States to work as a singer and composer. A mere 
explanation is not the independent objective evidence contemplated by Matter ofHo, and we find the 
Petitioner's offered explanations unpersuasive. The record does not contain clear evidence that the 
Petitioner will continue work in his area of expertise in the United States. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that he qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability and will 
continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States. The appeal will be dismissed for the 
above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the 
decision. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. 
We also find that the Petitioner has willfully misrepresented material facts directly relating to the 
immigration benefits sought in this petition. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11133034 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 16, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a poet, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the smal I percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. In addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he would 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia V. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal V. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his poetry and indicated that he has "continued [his] work as a 
poet since [he] arrived last year, as a result, [his] new book will be published in May 2020, and [he 
has] written the entire book during [his] stay here in the United States." Because the Petitioner has 
not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled the following three criteria: 
awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(1), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and judging at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Upon de nova review, we agree with the Director regarding the awards 
and judging criteria. However, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that he meets the published material criterion. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he 
meets at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation.1 Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
established eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we will withdraw the 
Director's decision for this criterion. 
In the initial filing cover letter, the Petitioner claimed: 
[B]ecause he is considered one of the foremost contemporary I I poets whose work 
serves as a benchmark in the field, [he] has received extensive press and media 
coverage relating to himself and his work, including numerous articles and reviews of 
his work in newspapers and online, as well as interviews on several television and radio 
stations around the globe .... 
Additional reviews of [his] work have been publish~critics in the Middle East 
Newspaper l I 2017), Aljazirah Newspaper~ 2016 andl I 2016), 
Okaz Newspaper I I 2014), Al:oum Newspaper~ I 2014 andl I f 017), Allhayat Newspaper l I 2019), the Qatari magazine New Generation 
2016) and Farqad Magazine I I 2018) .... Given the sheer volume 
of [his] extensive press and media coverage relating to himself and his work, we present 
a sampling of this evidence for your review .... 
Although the Petitioner asserted publication by newspapers and magazines, the record does not contain 
evidence of his claim. Instead, the Petitioner provided documentation reflecting the posting of articles 
on websites; the record does not indicate published material about the Petitioner relating to his work 
in newspapers or magazines. For example, the Petitioner stated that he "was recentl interviewed b 
the E tian leadin news a er AI-Ahram in an article entitled 
'------------------------------~ The record 
shows a translated article from an unidentified website rather than from the newspaper, AI-Ahram. 
Accordingly, in the absence of publication in newspapers or magazines, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that the postings on websites represent major media. See, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 
19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 (C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). 
Likewise, the Petitioner submitted a "Certificate of Translation" from._l ____ _.I for a list of 36 
items, indicating that she: 
[E]dited the translated text from I I to English for meaning, accuracy, and 
consistency with the original source text. [She] hereby certified to the best of [her] 
knowledge, the translation that [she has] provided is accurate and faithful translation 
of the original text provided to [her]. 
[She has] made the attached translations into English for the following documents: 
Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete 
and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. 
Id. In her list of documents,! I indicated that she translated articles from specific newsparersl 
~azines even though the record contains onl screenshots of websites. For exam le, while 
L__Js certification lists .__ __________________ __.. Al-Riyadh 
3 
Newspaper," the record only contains a translation of an article entitled,,__ ________ ~ I ~ posted online at alriyadh.com. 
Moreover! I lists documents that are not contained in the record -either in a printed format 
or an online format. For instance,! I indicated ·I I 
.___ _____ ____.'; however, the record does not reflect the translation of such an article printed 
in AI-Hayat Newspaper or posted on alhayat.com. 
Furthermore, the majority of the translations ri,,..u..,........._..LI.J.J,,L..l.L.l,dL.l.4.l,<J....,.,_, ........... .u..u.Ju....u...JL.J..>J,OJL..l<...J....._.......,,....L...l,o .......... l,LL.ll,...._...L..1,/,.._, 
instance, the translation for an article entitled, ,__-----~-----r----------' I I (alapn.co), states 'Ti] 2019f ~~yv newlf ency 
wrote about my comment on my winning of thel l's priz oetry." 
(emphasis added). Here, the added commentary by the Petitioner suggests that did not 
translate the material and/or did not provide a "complete and accurate" translation as re uired b the 
re ulation. In addition the Petitioner submitted translations such as the ones entitled 
.___~_,......I and without attaching ,__ _____________________ ___. 
the original documents. 
Inconsistencies in the record must be resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where 
the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because of these inconsistencies, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the translated material is accurate and supports his claims. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner submitted translations for 17 foreign language website 
postings. However, two of the translations have no dates of the material, four of the translations have 
no authors, eight of the translations have no dates and no authors, and one translation has no title, date, 
and author. The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory 
requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, although eight of the articles reflect 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work, nine of the articles reflect media coverage 
of events and other individuals. While the Petitioner is briefly mentioned, the articles do not represent 
ublished material about him. For exam le, the translation of an article entitled! .... ______ ____. 
,__ ______________ ___,' which includes the title, date, and author, is about the 
Prize with the Petitioner briefly mentioned one time among the other winners. Further, the 
'-o-th_e_r-tr_,anslation that includes the title, date, and author entitled, ·I I 
.___ ________ __,reports on the Petitioner's poetry books but is not about him. Articles 
that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D.N.V. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a 
show are not about the actor). 
The Petitioner also resented three En lish on line articles. As it relates to the article entitled, II 
~sofoman.com), the article reflects covera~ 
opening ceremony of the,__ _ _,Festival forL__JPoetry with the Petitioner mentioned only time as 
being one of several poets participating. Similarly, an article entitled, i , J , I I t (middleeasteye.net) is about a list of 10 poets with the Petitioner 
briefly listed among them. Further, although the article entitled, I I 
4 
.___ _____ _.I (allafrica.com) reflects published material about him, the Petitioner did not include 
the author of the material. 2 
Further, the Petitioner offered five screenshots of photographs claiming that they depict television 
interviews of him and attached website addresses from YouTube. However, the Petitioner did not 
include the titles and the authors of the material. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
screenshots of photographs depict published material about him. The Petitioner, for example, did not 
submit transcriptions of the television interviews to establish published material about him. 
As it relates to the evidence reflecting published material about him which ioch1ded the rem1ired title 
date, and author, the Petitioner provided one article entitled, I I I tsudanow-magazine.net). 3 Likewise, notwithstanding the personal 
commentary and the other issues addressed above regarding the translations, the Petitioner submitted 
translations for interviews of him posted on alaraby.co.uk, okaz.com, and alittihad.ae.4 However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the major media standings of the websites. 
Specifically, the Petitioner submitted an "About" screenshot regarding SUDANOW Magazine from 
sudanow-magazine.net. The screenshot makes no mention of sudanow-magazine.net, let alone its 
standing as a major medium.5 Further, the Petitioner did not offer any independent, objective 
evidence to support the screenshot's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of 
the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 
604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the 
magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium); see also, e.g., Victorov, No. CV 19-
6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8. Likewise, the Petitioner provided a screenshot from 
eyeofriyadh.com that indicates contact information for Okaz Newspaper but does not establish, or even 
mention, okaz.com as a major medium. The record does not reflect that the Petitioner offered evidence 
relating to alaraby.co.uk and alittihad.ae. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his documentation satisfies 
all of the elements of this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. 6 As a result, we need not provide the type of 
2 Duplicate copies of this article contained in the record. 
3 Duplicate copies of this article contained in the record. 
4 The Petitioner submitted another translation of an interview posted on al-hayat.com but did not include the author. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility for original contributions under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). He does not contest these criteria on appeal. 
Accordingly, we consider these issues to be abandoned. See Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th 
Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court 
found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
5 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
jlthougr the Petitioner received some awards, they are mostly limited to houths, students, and age 
Prize tori lyoutps.....Award,otl for students of secondary 
schools and bachelors' degrees, and L___JAward for young innovators between 18 -40). While 
the awards reflect some recognition of his work in the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how 
his honors place him among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not establish that his receipt of such awards compare 
to those in the upper echelon of his field. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that his work on the 
judging committee of the~------~ Poetry reflects a career of acclaimed work in the 
field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. He did not, for example, demonstrate that he garnered 
wide attention from the field based on his committee work judging poetry. Further, even though the 
website articles suggest some media coverage, the Petitioner did not establish that such reporting is 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim for this very high standard to present 
more extensive documentation than that required. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability.7 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of 
the Act. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, 
federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7880553 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC, 16, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a jeweler, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In 
addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he would continue to work 
in his area of extraordinary ability and that he would substantially benefit prospectively the United 
States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia V. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal V. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts to have worked in the field ofl !traditional jewelry making. Because the 
Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one criterion, awards 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not concur with the 
Director's decision relating to this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets five 
additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, the record does not reflect that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion without identifying the qualifying 
award(s) and explaining his determination. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized 
for excellence in the field of endeavor.1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for 
granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria 
used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in 
the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors.2 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
Because the record does not reflect that the Petitioner established eligibility under the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), we will withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
At the initial filing, the Petitioner indicated that "[i]n 2012, [he] was awarded [the] UNESCO [United 
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization] Award of Excellence for Handicrafts." 
(emphasis added). However, he submitted a certificate for "The UNESCO Crafts Prize 2016 for the 
Asia-Pacific Region ... on the occasion of the I I Festival." (emphasis added). In 
response to the director's request for evidence (RFE), he claimed that "[i]n 2016, [he] was awarded 
[the] UNESCO Award of Excellence for Handicrafts." The record does not support the Petitioner's 
initial claim of receiving a 2012 UNESCO award. 
In addition, he provided an application kit by the World Crafts Council (WCC) for the "Award of 
Excellence for Handicrafts" stating that "[t]he Award of Excellence for Handicrafts, was established 
by UNESCO in 2001. Owing to its success, the programme was expanded worldwide until 2012. 
wee since 2014 is continuing the programme under patronage of UNESCO within Asia Pacific 
Region."3 However, the certificate indicated above is for "The UNESCO Crafts Prize 2016 for the 
Asia-Pacific Region." The Petitioner did not demonstrate how "The UNESCO Crafts Prize" 
(certificate) relates to the "Award for Excellence for Handicrafts" (application kit). Further, the 
application kit indicates: 
The wee "Award of Excellence for Handicrafts" aims to encourage artisans to 
produce handicrafts using traditional skills, patterns and themes in an innovative way, 
in order to ensure the continuity and sustainability of these traditions and skills. It is 
WCC's flagship programme for supporting craft producers. 
Each product recognized with the wee Award is given a certificate. The certificate 
can be used as a promotional tool (for a specified product or a product line) to attest 
the quality and authenticity of a product. 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate how the application kit reflects the national or international 
recognition of the "Award of Excellence for Handicrafts" in the field. Rather, according to the 
application kit, the award's purpose is to encourage artisans to produce handicrafts and to use as a 
promotional tool. Here, the Petitioner did not establish the national or international significance of 
the award in the field beyond wee. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that the issuance of 
numerous awards is indicative of an award "for excellence in the field of endeavor" consistent with 
this regulatory criterion. For instance, in 2012, "[t]he UNESCO Award of Excellence for Handicrafts 
3 The record also contains screenshots from WCC's website regarding the Asian Pacific Region program, rules and 
regulations, and contact information. In addition, the screenshots state that "[t]he main objectives of [WCC] is to ensure 
the status in each country of the Asia Pacific Region as a vital part of the cultural scenario by developing and strengthening 
it," including "[t]o promote, develop, maintain, strengthen and ensure status of crafts as an important medium of artistic 
expression." 
3 
has been granted to 80 craft products from a total 189 entries in the South and South-East Asian 
subregions."4 In this case, almost half of all entries received the "Award of Excellence." 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received nationally or 
internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. As such, we 
withdraw the decision of the Director for this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he "was accepted to ____ _. Association in 2011, based on his 
outstanding achievements in the field of traditional jewelry making as judged by nationally or 
internationally recognized experts in the field of traditional ·ewelry making." In order to satisfy 
this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged 
by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for 
which classification is sought. 5 
The record reflects that the Petitioner initially presented a membershi certificate from the 
"Administration ofl !Association of Craftsmen and Artists of the 
I 1-" In addition the Petitiarer provided a letter froml lcL-h-a-ir_m_a_n_o_f _th ___ --,, 
Regional Department of I j who claimed that this "organization requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts," and 
"[t]he approach for [the Petitioner's] level of full association membership, were demonstration of 
outstanding achievements as judged by nationally recognized experts in the field ofl !traditional 
jewelry making sphere." Here.I I repeats the language of the regulations without pointing 
to any governing authority establishing that membership with I I requires outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. See Fed in Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, 
Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Further, the Petitioner did not submit any 
supporting evidence, such as the bylaws or other documentation, showing! Is membership 
requirements, to corroborat~ Is assertions. 
Moreover, in response to the Director's RFE, he offered two letters from.__ ________ __. 
general director of I I who confirmed the Petitioner's membership and highlighted his 
jewelry work. However, I I did not indicate the membership requirements for[ I 
nor did he demonstrate that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding 
achievements for membership with the association. 
4 See https://cu lture360.asef .org/news-events/u nesco-award-excel lence-hand icrafts-80-asian-craft-products/, accessed on 
October 19, 2020. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
As such, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 6 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted three articles from The Bukhari an 
Times, Zaman Times, and Buxoroyi Sharif. However, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the 
publications are professional or major trade or other major media. The Petitioner offered a letter from 
the I bf The Bukhari an Times stating that "[t]he newspaper ... is a weekly social and 
political newspaper of the community of Bukharian Jews of America," and "[t]he circulation ... is 12 
thousand printed copies." In addition, he provided a media kit from The Bukharian Times indicating 
that it "is the only free weekly Russian newspaper in New York City" with a quantity of 12,000 copies. 
Regarding Buxoroyi Sharif, the Petitioner presented a letter from the I lwho asserted that it "is a 
weekly social -political newspaper," and "[t]he newspaper is published every Thursday with around 
500 print issues containing about 4-6 pages per each." Here, the Petitioner did not provide any 
independent, objective evidence showing the newspapers' standings as major media. USCIS need not 
rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO 
(C.D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving assertions 
on the cover a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major medium). 
Further, the Petitioner did not show the significance of the "12,000" and "500" circulation figures or 
explain how such data reflects status as major media. 7 Moreover, the Petitioner did not offer evidence 
relating to the position of the Zaman Times. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that he "has made a contribution of major significance to this field by virtue 
of his ability to preserve and creatively develop the unique artistic heritage of ancient! ljewelers." 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.8 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
5 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on three 
recommendation letters that opined on his abilities, skills, and personal traits. For instance, "[the 
Petitioner's] specialization is mainly connected with the perception of exquisite patterns of modern 
and ancient ornaments of jewels, which represent the whole amenity and the authenticity of this 
challenging art"~------~· "[the Petitioner] is one of a few on top masters who are able 
to handle long-term duties along with undisputable aspiration and passion in his craft" I I I I, and "[the Petitioner] does not stop in his work, he is always in search, in work, and he comes 
to the right decision through thousands of sketches of the future product" ~------~ I ~-However, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of-itself. Further, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has 
already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a si nificant level, which the letters do not 
show. In addition, he presented a letter fro ~--------------1 " ank[ed] [the 
Petitioner] for providing exceptional service to [the Academy of Arts of,___ __ ____,," and "[the 
Petitioner's] ~ersonal aspiration to make our exhibition successful constantly exceeds our 
expectations." I I does not explain how the Petitioner's contributions to the academy 
impacted the overall field rather than limited to the academy's exhibition. 9 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his artwork has had on the overall field. Letters 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value.10 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion.11 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, and original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two 
additional criteria on appeal, relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and display at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(vii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these 
issues.12 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
11 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
12 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner claims experience as a jeweler, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability.13 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b){l){A){i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b){l)(A)(ii) of the Act and 
whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b){l)(A)(iii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. See INS, 429 U.S. at 25-26; see also 26 l&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 1834 7280 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 16, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary, an infectious disease clinician, as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
established that the Beneficiary satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the requested 
classification , of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary 's international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit 
this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three 
of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary received his Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and Doctor of 
Medicine degrees in general medicine froml !Medical College in India in 2004 and 2007, 
res ectively. In 2013, he completed his medical residency in internal medicine atl I College in 
Texas. Between 2013 and 2016, he completed a three-year fellowship in infectious disease '----------, m Minnesota. Since 2016, the Beneficiary has been employed by 
....._ ____________________ __., a hospital located inl JNorth at the 
Carolina, as an infectious disease physician. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must establish that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria,judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner's documentary evidence indicates 
that the Beneficiary has peer-reviewed manuscripts for several journals including American Journal 
of Transplantation, BMJ Case Reports, and Clinical Microbiology and Infection. In addition, the 
Beneficiary has authored scholarly articles published in journals including Clinical Infectious 
Diseases, Open Forum Infectious Diseases, and Journal of Virology. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the requirements of the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it meets the three additional criteria discussed below. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that 
not only has the beneficiary made original contributions but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. 1 For example, a petitioner may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed 
eligibility for this criterion based on the Beneficiary's published research, citation record, letters from 
experts in the field, and other evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the Beneficiary has established himself as a gifted medical 
researcher, who has made original scientific contributions of major significance in the field of 
infectious disease, most notably in Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) cure research and 
transplant/surgical medicine. 2 Here, although the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the 
originality of the Beneficiary's research through recommendation letters praising him for his 
contributions, the letters are lacking detail explaining how his research findings have already been 
widely accepted and implemented in the field to the extent that they have been regarded as 
contributions of major significance. In general, the letters recount the Beneficiary's research and 
findings, and indicate their publication in journals. 
For example, the Petitioner provided letters from I I the Beneficiary's 
fellowship mentor at l I and I I the chair ofl ts 
molecular medicine department, which state that the Beneficiary was the primary researcher on a studv 
that focused on finding a cure for HIV which resulted in his 2017 Plos One article titled I ] 
,__ _ _,First, we note the multiple identical statements in those letters suggest that their language was 
not written independently. While it is acknowledged that the authors have provided their support for 
this petition, it is unclear whether the letters reflect their independent observations and thus an 
informed and unbiased opinion of the Beneficiary's work. In evaluating the evidence, the truth is to 
be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
The aforementioned letters provide that the Beneficiary's research confirmed, for the first time, that 
In addition, 
.__ __ __.speaks to the potential or future benefit of the Beneficiary's work, stating that his research 
"opened the door to other avenues of HIV cure research and expanded the boundaries of our 
knowledge regarding innovative HIV cure strategies" and that "human studies usmg the drugs 
identified in the Beneficiary's research are in the planning stages atl I' but his 
1 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (providing 
guidance on the review of evidence submitted to satisfy the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)) (stating that 
although funded and published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of 
major significance). 
2 Although we do not discuss every letter submitted, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
assertions do not demonstrate the Beneficiary 's research has already had an impact or influence 
commensurate with "major significance." 
Further,! I asserts that the Beneficiary 's HIV cure research findings resulted in I l's 
obtainment of a renewal of National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding "because his research provided 
critical data supporting a pilot HIV cure study in HIV positive patients." However, receiving funding 
to conduct research is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of itself. Rather, the evidence 
must establish that receiving the grant is reflective of the Beneficiary's past work's major significance, 
or that his research conducted with the NIH grant resulted in a contribution of major significance in 
the field. I ts recommendation letter confirming that the Beneficiary's contributions directly 
led to the renewal of NIH funding, however, does not sufficiently illustrate how the funding reflects 
the importance of the Beneficiary's contributions, nor does it indicate the research results of the NIH 
funding and whether they are majorly significant in the field . 
...._ __________ __, program director of.__ ____________ ___, Fellowship 
Training Program, described the findings of the Beneficiary 's research study, published in his 2016 
Open Forum Infectious Diseases article title I I 
He notes that the Beneficiary's article reported that, in the two years prior, 
units used i surgery were the suspected source o~ I contamination 
outbreaks o~._--r ___ ........ .,.tients in three European countries, and it also examined the first three 
known cases of .__ ___ _,in U.S. patients who had similarly undergone I I surgeries. D 
.__ __ ___.!states that the article was the first to identify that, when present, this type of infection 
commonly exists in the eye, but he does not explain how that research finding went on to significantly 
impact or influence the field. 
We note that the record does not support the assertion that in response to the Beneficiary 's 2016 Open 
Forum Infectious Diseases article the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (F~'· d its 
monitoring of I f ases and implemented mass screening of units 
across the country," as mamtamed by the Petitioner and apparently confirmed by and 
.__ ________ __, also ofl I Rather, articles previously submitted by the 
Petitioner indicate that the Beneficiary's article was preceded by the FDA's June 1, 2016, notification 
to hospitals to determine a method for patient follow-up and establish patient surveillance in the case 
of potential exposure, and its June 2016 recommendations forl I unit sampling and 
monitoring. 3 We may, in our discretion, use as advisory opinion statements from universities, 
professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony . However, 
where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we are not 
required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791 
(Comm'r 1988). Further, the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary's research in this area 
was deemed a contribution of major significance in the field. 
3 Those articles include a renort from the FDA with information current throw,hl I 2020 titled i 
:======i...'a~nd a 2021 article froml __ -..._ ____ ___,I titled I.__ ________________ .... -~~--- .... I' which do not reference the Beneficiary by name or his 2016 Open Forum Infectious Diseases article 
in discussin actions taken b the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in response to the risk 
4 
further rovides that the Beneficia was the lead author of the 2017 EBioMedicine 
article titled 
,--!===========.---=--~ and was the first U.S. researcher to identify and prove that ~I---~ 
.__ _______ ___. typically found in the can be transmitted from an organ 
donor to an organ recipient during trans lant surgery. He indicates that the 
Beneficiary's research study examine trans lantation records between 
1998 and 2015 and identified 7 previously unreported cases of nfection. He 
asserts that the Beneficiary's findings "resulted in.__ ____ ___. and other hospitals modifying the 
way in which organs are screened before they are transplanted" to include screening forl.__ ___ ___. 
but he does not identify any other hospitals who have changed their pre-op surgery procedures as a 
result of the Beneficiary's research findings to support this claim. Regardless of the field of endeavor, 
the plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance in the field" requires evidence of an 
impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. Visinscaia 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-135. He does 
not explain how the Beneficiary's work in that area has been particularly influential or impactful in 
the field or explain how it has been applied by others, so as to constitute a contribution of major 
significance within the meaning of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
Here, the letters do not contain detailed information showing the substantial influence the 
Beneficiary's contributions have had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
beneficiary's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). Here, the letters do not, for example, indicate that therapeutic treatments were being 
developed as a result of the Beneficiary's research, that his clinical or research work has already had 
a widespread impact, or that it substantially influenced the nature or direction of research being 
conducted in his area of specialty, and the record does not contain supporting evidence demonstrating 
this influence. The record does not contain evidence sufficient to support the Petitioner's claim that 
the Beneficiary's work has already had a major influence in his field such as, for example, by 
significantly influencing treatment practices, development of therapeutics, or the direction of further 
research. 
In addition, the Beneficiary's publications and citation history, considered independently and in 
context with the evidence as a whole, are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. The record provides 
evidence that the Beneficiary has published his research. Such evidence verifies that the Beneficiary 
has shared his original research. To satisfy this criterion, he must demonstrate that the reaction from 
others in the field is such that it supports a finding that his work rises to the level of "contributions of 
major significance" in the field. For example, peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have 
provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or entries 
(particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the beneficiary's work as authoritative in 
the field, may be probative of the significance of their contributions to the field of endeavor. 5 
4 See 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
5 Ibid. 
5 
Regarding his citations, within his initial submission the Petitioner provided evidence from Google 
Scholar reflecting the Beneficiary's scholarly publications have received 229 cumulative citations. 
Specifically, the record shows that his three most cited articles at the time of filing received 79 
(Clinical Infectious Diseases), 61 (Open Forum b1fectious Diseases), and 48 (Journal of Virology), 
citations, respectively. 6 Generally, citations to a given article can serve as an indication that the field 
has taken interest in a beneficiary's work; however, the fact that a beneficiary has published articles 
that other researchers have referenced is not, by itself, sufficient to establish that he meets this 
criterion. Here, the Petitioner has not presented evidence that establishes that the citation numbers 
recorded in Google Scholar confirm that one or more of the Beneficiary's publications has provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field at a level consistent with 
"contributions of major significance in the field." Nor has the Petitioner shown that the Beneficiary's 
work has been cited as authoritative in the field or has otherwise influenced the field in a significant 
way. 
Further, while the Petitioner submitted corroborating evidence in the form of expert opinion letters, 
that evidence, for the reasons already discussed, is not sufficient to establish that any of the 
Beneficiary's research findings have remarkably impacted or influenced his field. Although the 
Beneficiary's citations indicate that others in the field have referenced his work, he did not establish 
that the submitted citation statistics alone reach the threshold of "major significance" as required by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Considered together, the evidence consisting of the citation 
statistics and the reference letters from his colleagues establishes that the Beneficiary has been 
productive, and that his published data and findings have been relied upon by others in their own 
research. It does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary has made an original contribution of major 
significance in his field. 
Further, the Petitioner has not established, as asserted, that publication of the Beneficiary's articles in 
highly ranked or popular journals inevitably demonstrates that the field considers the research and 
work to be an original contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high 
ranking or impact factor reflects the publication's overall citation rate; it does not show an author's 
influence or the impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal 
automatically indicates a contribution of major significance. Here, the Petitioner has not established 
that publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. For the reasons discussed above, 
considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the evidence establishes the Beneficiary's leading or critical 
role fo~ I in his current position as an infectious disease specialist and its distinguished 
reputation. It also maintains that the Beneficiary performed in a critical role as an infectious disease 
6 The Beneficiary's remaining 13 articles and !medical textbook each garnered between O and 11 citations. 
6 
fellow atl I The Director found that the Petitioner established the Beneficiary's critical 
role forl lbut did not show it has a distinguished reputation. As it relates to a leading 
role, the evidence must establish that a beneficiary is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, 
the evidence must demonstrate that a beneficiary has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a 
beneficiary's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was 
critical. 8 
~ing the Beneficiary's current position, the Petitioner references a letter froml I L_J the senior vice president of medical affairs ofj I who asserts that the Beneficiary 
has performed in a critical role for the hospital as its first infectious disease clinician and the chair of 
the infectious disease department. I I provides that the Beneficiary has developed and 
implemented the department and its outpatient practice and treated infectious disease cases that 
involve other departments such as cardiology, orthopedics, and obstetrics and gynecology, but he does 
not specify what duties those positions entail beyond the typical duties of a physician. In addition, he 
highlights the Beneficiary's roles on several of the hospital's committees, programs, and teams, 
including as treasurer of the executive committee, director of the internal medicine residency program, 
chair of the infection prevention and control committee, and designated safety officer of the hospital 
incident management team. The record contains additional documentation showing that in his position 
as designated safety officer the Beneficiary organized trainings to educate hospital staff on the CDC's 
COVID-19 prevention measures, testing criteria, and treatment recommendations between April 2020 
and the date when the petition was filed in June 2020. 
Here, the testimonial and documentary evidence did not provide sufficient context to show that the 
Beneficiary's positions in these bodies constituted a leading or critical role for~------~ The 
documentation submitted establishes that the Beneficiary performed admirably in his role as an 
infectious disease clinician, but it does not offer probative details explaining how his role is a "leading" 
role based on his placement within the hospital's organizational structure,9 or provide sufficient 
support for a finding that his role was of significant importance to the hospital's standing or success 
consistent with the meaning of "critical role." 
Further, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate thatl !qualifies as an organization 
or establishment that has a distinguished reputation, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The record shows that the hospital received a rating of 4 out of 5 stars in a 2020 survey of discharged 
patients by the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems, on such topics 
as nurse, doctor, and medical staff communication, and hospital cleanliness and quietness. However, 
7 See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra. at F.2 appendix. 
8 Id. 
9 The Petitioner provided an undated organizational chart of the positions and departments oti O I but it does 
not show where the Beneficiary's position fit within that organizational structure and it is unclear ifit represents the general 
hierarchy of I I at the time when the petition was filed. For instance, although the chati indicates the 
existence of a board of directors, several medical staff officer positions, and medical staff departments, the infectious 
disease depm1ment is not listed. Nor does the record contain other evidence documenting how the Beneficiary's position 
fit within the general hierarchy of I I and differentiated him from its other principal doctors and medical 
staff department leaders, let alone its senior managerial staff. 
7 
a survey measuring patients' perceptions of their hospital experience does not demonstrate that the 
organization has a distinguished reputation in the field. Similarly, the Petitioner previously submitted I l's parent company's 2018 Annual Report and 2016 Research Highlights Report, and a 
Management Services Agreement showing I I is part of a network of more than 600 care 
locations, but the Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, showing the field's view of the 
hospital, and how its reputation compares to similar establishments, or how its successes or 
accomplishments relate to others, signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
RegardinJ the Beneficiary's former position withl lin their aforementioned letter~ I and I I assert that I Is obtainment of NIH funding for a pilot HIV cure 
study based on the Beneficiary's HIV cure research findings demonstrates "the critical role he played 
during his fellowship atl I Although the Beneficiary has performed admirably on 
research projects, those letters do not rovide sufficient support for a finding that the Beneficiary's 
fellowship role, while vital to s pilot HIV cure study, was of significant importance to the 
standing or success o .__ _____ _, onsistent with the meaning of "critical role." In light of the 
above, the Petitioner has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets this criterion for the first time on appeal because "he 
commands a high salary in relation to other infectious disease physicians." However, as the Petitioner 
did not claim the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion before the Director, either at the time it 
filed the petition or in response to the Director's request for evidence, we will not consider this claim 
in our adjudication ofthis appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity 
to provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for 
any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the 
Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 1988). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
8 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 16, 2024 InRe: 35172902 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pharmacist, seeks classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-
1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . Successful petitioners for 
U.S. permanent residence in this category must demonstrate "sustained national or international 
acclaim" and extensively document recognition of their achievements in their fields. Section 
201(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner did not meet any of the requested category's ten evidentiary requirements -three less than 
needed for a final merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director imposed a 
stricter standard of proof than authorized and misapplied law. The Petitioner contends that she 
submitted evidence of: 
• Her membership in professional associations requiring outstanding achievements as judged by 
experts; 
• Her authorship of scholarly articles in her field; 
• Display of her work in her field at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• Her performance in a critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (vi), (vii), (viii). 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she has not satisfied the minimum number of evidentiary requirements. We 
will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence of 
extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either evidentiary standard and the statutory requirements at section 
203(b)(l)(A)(ii), (iii) of the Act, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) must then make 
a final merits determination. For approval, the record -as a whole -must establish a petitioner's 
sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the 
small percentage at their field's very top. Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010); 
see generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual F.2(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Facts 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Brazilian native and citizen, earned a bachelor's degree in 
pharmacy from a university in her home country. She then worked in Brazil as a pharmacist for more 
than five years, gaining experience in clinical and hospital pharmacy, and laboratory and toxicological 
analyses. She states that, during the COVID-19 pandemic, she "[w ]orked 24/7 shifts with patients in 
critical condition." 
The Petitioner arrived in the United States in 2022 and states her intent to continue working here in 
her field. She says: "I am committed to bringing my expertise to the United States and contributing 
to the healthcare industry in the country." 
The record does not indicate -nor does the Petitioner claim -her receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria. To satisfy the 
requirements, her proof must objectively meet the parameters of applicable regulatory descriptions. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B). 
B. Evidentiary Requirements 
l. Membership in Associations 
This criterion requires "[d]ocumentation of the [noncitizen]'s membership in associations in the field 
for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her membership in two Brazilian pharmaceutical associations. 
She provided a letter from one association's president and a copy ofher identification card in the other 
group. 
As the Director found, however, the Petitioner's documentation does not demonstrate that these 
memberships required her attainment ofoutstanding achievements in her field as judged by recognized 
experts. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act (requiring petitioners to establish recognition of their 
achievements "through extensive documentation"). We will therefore affirm the Director's 
determination on this evidentiary criterion. 
2. Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit evidence of their "authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
In adjudicating this criterion, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner authored scholarly articles 
in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), Criteria 6. If so, the Agency then 
considers whether a publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or 
major media publication. Id. Relevant factors for professional journals include the intended audience. 
Id. In contrast, for major media, considerations include the circulation or readership relative to other 
media in the field. Id. 
The Petitioner provided copies of summaries of four articles she co-wrote as a student in 2016. The 
articles focus, respectively, on congenital syphilis, green tea as an alternative treatment for obesity, 
urinary tract infections, and gastrointestinal parasites in children. She claims that these articles 
appeared in major trade publications. 
We disagree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner's documentation does not demonstrate the 
articles' publications. The articles' summaries indicate that journals published the articles. We 
confirmed their publications by accessing a reputable online index of scholarly literature. 
3 
As the Director also found, however, the Petitioner has not provided evidence that the journals 
constitute major trade publications. To be a major trade publication, "the trade journal must be one of 
the major publications in the field." Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO (FMOx), 2007 WL 
9229758, *6 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007). Thus, she has not demonstrated her claimed authorship of 
scholarly articles in her field in major trade publications. See section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
(requiring petitioners to establish recognition of their achievements "through extensive 
documentation"). We will therefore affirm the Director's determination regarding this evidentiary 
requirement. 
3. Display of Work at Artistic Exhibitions or Showcases 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence of the display of the [ noncitizen] 's work in the field at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
USCIS first determines whether the displayed materials constitute a petitioner's work product. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), Criteria 7. Second, the Agency considers whether the 
display of a petitioner's work was at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Id. We interpret the 
regulation's term "exhibition" using its ordinary, common meaning. See, e.g., Perrin v. United States, 
444 U.S. 37, 42 (1979) ("A fundamental canon of statutory construction is that, unless otherwise 
defined, words will be interpreted as taking their ordinary, contemporary, common meaning ...."). 
In this context, the term "exhibition" ordinarily means "a public showing (as of works of art ... )." 
Exhibition, Merriam-Webster.com, www.merriam-webster.com. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of photographs of herself between 2018 and 2022 at various events, 
including images of her speaking at a "roundtable" and workshop. As the Director found, however, 
the photos do not establish the events' status as artistic exhibitions or showcases. See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122 (holding that a petitioner's self-published textbook, lectures at a community college, 
and presentations at conferences did not constitute displays at artistic exhibitions or showcases). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that this evidentiary requirement "is not exclusive to artists." She 
notes that the word "showcase" does not necessarily refer to art. "Showcase" ordinarily means "a 
setting, occasion, or medium for exhibiting something or someone especially in an attractive or 
favorable aspect." Showcase, Merriam-Webster.com, supra (emphasis added). 
The Petitioner's interpretation of this evidentiary requirement, however, disregards the modifier 
"artistic." The criterion requires display of work "at artistic exhibitions or showcases." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii) (emphasis added). Thus, the regulation "explicitly requires that the exhibitions or 
showcases be artistic in nature." 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), Criteria 7. We therefore decline 
to adopt her regulatory interpretation. Because the record does not demonstrate the artistic nature of 
the events in which the Petitioner participated, we will affirm the Director's determination regarding 
this evidentiary equivalent. 
4. Performance in Leading or Critical Roles 
Even if the Petitioner submitted evidence of her performance in leading or critical roles for 
organizations with distinguished reputations, see 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), she would not meet the 
4 
reqms1te amount of evidentiary requirements. We therefore need not reach and hereby reserve 
consideration of her appellate arguments regarding this evidentiary criterion and a final merits 
determination. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (per curiam) (holding that agencies 
need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not met the requisite number of evidentiary requirements for the requested 
classification. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 16, 2024 In Re: 35163329 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an integration architect, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
energy efficiency . See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not receive 
a one-time achievement or satisfy at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not show his receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Moreover, the Director concluded the Petitioner did not meet 
any of the six claimed alternate regulatory criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains his qualification for three categories of evidence. 1 For the reasons discussed 
below, the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets at least three evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner argues that he fulfills the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which requires 
"[ e ]vidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field," based on four recommendation letters. USCIS 
determines whether the person has made original contributions in the field. 2 USCIS then determines 
whether the original contributions are of major significance to the field. 3 Examples of relevant 
evidence include, but are not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's 
original work; testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that 
the person's original work was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents 
or licenses deriving from the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 4 
Although the letters praise the Petitioner, the letters do not demonstrate that his contributions resulted 
in major significance in the field. Rather, the letters limit the relevance ofthe Petitioner's contributions 
to his employers. For instance, K-C-S-discusses the Petitioner's "most recent work atl Iwhere 
he was instrumental in designing and developing BEN (Business Event Notification) framework," and 
"[t]his has resulted in annual saving of over a million USD. Similarly, R-L-states that the Petitioner's 
role is super critical to D ... where he was instrumental in designing, developing and delivering 
1 Any ground ofineligibility that is not raised on appeal is waived. See Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 
2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
products ...." Here, the letters do not establish the significance of his contributions beyond __ 
or show how those contributions have been considered to be majorly significant in the overall field. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
Likewise, A-V-stated that he has "been greatly impressed with [the Petitioner's] most recent work at 
______ where [he] was instrumental in rolling out new software to entire fleet of 2500+ 
ATM's with enhanced feature and experience to customer," and "[t]his integration helped in 
monitoring the currency value in real time which saved millions of dollars to bank in options." Again, 
the letter does not discuss how the Petitioner's involvement in rolling out new software somehow 
impacted or influenced the overall field rather than limited to his employer, ______ 
Finally, S-P-indicated that the Petitioner "has contributed to the growth ofl Iand has provided 
our clients with great insights by delivering solutions, white papers, and biogs." Once again, the letter 
reflects the Petitioner's contributions to his employer rather than establishing how those contributions 
have been majorly significant in the greater field. 
Here, the letters briefly indicate the importance of the Petitioner's contributions to his employers 
without showing the impact or influence in the overall field in a major way. While the letters briefly 
indicate how the Petitioner has affected his employers, they do not further elaborate and explain how 
his employer projects translated into contributions of major significance in the field. 5 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance.6 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 7 
In this case, the letters lack specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance in the field. USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish he satisfies the original contributions criterion. Although the Petitioner 
also argues eligibility for the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and 
the high salary criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds 
because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three under 8 C.F.R. 
5 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's 
original work constitutes major, significant contributions in the field). 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
7 Id. 
3 
§ 204.5(h)(3). We also need not provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 8 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal 1), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (per curiam) (holding that agencies are not required to make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 17, 2024 In Re: 35413613 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and nine subsequent motions. The matter is now 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality ofthe material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements ofa motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). In addition, our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 T&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
TT. ANALYSTS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner restates and describes the 
evidence he submitted under the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, judging, and leading or critical 
role. 1 However, the Petitioner does not argue or point to how we incorrectly applied law or policy in 
our prior decision, as required for a motion to reconsider. Disagreeing with our conclusions without 
showing that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the 
evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 
2006) (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, 
the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision). Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that we erred in either misapplying law or policy or failing to address 
prior arguments or evidence. For these reasons, we will dismiss his motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). For the first time on motion the Petitioner argues that he satisfies the initial evidentiary 
requirements through evidence of a qualifying one-time achievement pursuant to the regulation at 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3), based upon the same awards he submitted as lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a 
petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized 
award. 
As noted in our appellate decision, and affirmed in our most recent motion decision, the record reflects 
that the Petitioner has received numerous awards in the field of kickboxing, such as: 
• First place at the 2013 _______________________ 
I Cup in the 86 kg category; 
• Second place at the 2014 Championship held in 
• Second place at the 2016 Cham • • 
• First place in the 70 kg weight category at the 
Tournament and 
• First place in the 72.5 kg weight category at the __ Cup of Kickboxing. 
1 The Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not address our decision regarding the published material criterion. 
2 
While documentation provided from the I I General Rules Chapter 1" and the 
Official Amateur Rulebook detailed the general criteria for the awards the 
Petitioner received, they did not demonstrate the national or international significance of the awards 
won. Nor did the record contain other evidence establishing that these awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized for excellence in the field of martial arts as required for the lesser awards 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The Petitioner's current motion does not address our prior 
determination regarding this criterion. 
Instead, the Petitioner argues an Olympic medal should not be the only example of a qualifying one­
time achievement in athletics. He states that "Muaythai sport was not presented in Olympic Garnes 
yet as a competitive sport which means World Championship is the highest level of competition that 
athlete could attend." He asserts that "[b ]eing awarded second place in World Championship in I I 
2016 in I I is established that I had a major, internationally recognized award." 
Although the record indicates that Muay Thai is not an Olympic sport, here the Petitioner has not 
substantiated his arguments with independent evidence that any of the competitions in which he 
medaled represent the highest level of international competition in Muay Thai. 
In addition, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) provides that "[s]uch evidence shall include 
evidence of a one-time achievement (that is, a major intemal[ly] recognized award)." While the 
regulation does not identify any qualifying award, the House Report specifically cited to the Nobel 
Prize as an example of a one-time achievement. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted 
in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. We have consistently recognized other 
examples of a one-time achievement including the Pulitzer Prize, an Academy Award, and an Olympic 
medal. Further, we must look to Congress' intent that "admission under this category is to be reserved 
for that small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." Id. 
Thus, consistent with legislative history, a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, 
with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. 
We note that the selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress indicated above, is 
reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a 
familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally 
recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those 
elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope 
and internationally recognized, not just acknowledged within the field as its highest award. The 
Petitioner has not presented evidence, for example, establishing that the above competitions or awards 
are widely reported by international media, are recognized by the general public, or gamer attention 
comparable to other major, globally recognized awards such as Olympic medal winners. 
Therefore, the Petitioner did not establish that his receipt of any of the above awards qualifies as a 
one-time achievement. Even if the Petitioner had demonstrated that he had been awarded the top 
award in his field, which he has not, we are not persuaded that the top award in any field qualifies as 
a one-time achievement. The fact that a major, internationally recognized award, such as an Olympic 
Medal, may not exist in a specific field does not mean that we should diminish the impressive nature 
of the one-time achievement and accept a lesser award. In cases where one cannot obtain a one-time 
achievement, including instances where it is not available in a field, they "can also qualify on the basis 
3 
of a career of acclaimed work in the field" by satisfying three of the ten categories of evidence. See 
H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Next, for the first time on motion the Petitioner also argues that he satisfies the membership criterion 
based on his claim to having "served on Ukrainian national sports team in several World 
Championships and European Tournament" and his "recognition as a Master of Sports of Ukraine." 
However, none of his arguments offered on motion meet the requirements of the regulatory criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii).2 For example , although the documentation submitted indicates that the 
Petitioner has competed as a member of Fight Clubl land I I Martial Arts Club 
I I it does not provide any documentation of these clubs' official membership requirements or 
selection processes . In addition, the Petitioner does not explain how "recognition as a Master of Sports 
of Ukraine" constitutes evidence of association memberships, nor does the record contain evidence 
indicating that this or other achievements were requirements or led directly to his selection to the 
above clubs. Without evidence indicating that the Petitioner is a member of an association requiring 
outstanding achievements and that admission to membership is judged by recognized national or 
international experts, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of the 
membership criterion. 
The arguments on motion to reopen do not overcome our prior findings and demonstrate the 
Petitioner's eligibility. The Petitioner has not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements through 
evidence of a one-time achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) . Nor has the Petitioner provided new facts to establish that we erred in dismissing the 
appeal. For these reasons, we will dismiss his motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as supported with any pertinent precedent decisions, that our 
prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of our decision to satisfy 
the requirements for a motion to reconsider. He has also not provided new facts supported by affidavits 
or other documentary evidence to meet the requirements for a motion to reopen. Therefore , the motion 
will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) . 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen dismissed . 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4563711 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a general manager in firefighting technology, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be board chairman and technology director at the I l I landthel ] I I in China. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received 
a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets four criteria. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on membership with the National Technical 
Committee 113 on Fire Protection lTCFP), the I I Fire Standardization Technical 
Committee ( GFSTC), and the I Fire Protection Association ( GFP A). In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 2 
As it relates to NTCFP, the Petitioner presented screenshots showing the following commissioner 
conditions: 
1 See the Petitioner's resume submitted at initial filing of the petition. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
• Experts or technological backbones who are engaged in scientific research, production, 
supervision, inspection, management, and other aspects and are familiar to the standardization 
of business of the professional field and have relatively higher theories and more abundant 
practical experiences; 
• Staff who have professional technical titles of intermediate level and above; 
• Be familiar to and keen on the standardization work, observe the Articles of Association of 
Technical Commission, actively attend various activities organized by the Branch Technical 
Committee and fulfill the commissioners' duties and obligations; 
• Have relatively good writing level and foreign language level; and 
• Work in the organizations or legal persons which are established according to laws in the 
territory of China and are recommended by the working units. 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the commissioner conditions reflect outstanding 
achievements as required by this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the requirements show minimal 
levels of work and experience rather than outstanding accomplishments in the field. 3 Furthermore, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the conditions of engagement in scientific research, familiarity 
and keenness, and relatively good writing and foreign language skills are tantamount to outstanding 
achievements. In addition, the Petitioner did not show that recognized national or international experts 
judge membership with NTCFP. 
Similarly, regarding GFSTC, the Petitioner provided a letter from the secretariat of GSTC outlining 
the following conditions of recruited members: 
• Specialists with a higher theoretical level and relatively abundant practical experience in the 
field of fire protection and standardization; 
• In-service personnel possessing the intermediate level or above professional and technical title, 
or holding the post corresponding to the intermediate or above professional and technical level; 
• Personnel who love the cause of fire technical standardization, are familiar with 
standardization-related jobs and able to actively participate in standardization activities; and 
• An individual shall not be the member of more than three technical committees concurrently. 
Again, the Petitioner did not show that the membership requirements for GFSTC require outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. Further, the record reflects 
that GFSTC focuses on a certain level of experience and titles rather than outstanding 
accomplishments and achievements in the field. 4 Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
possessing a higher theoretical level, a professional and technical title, an abundant practical 
experience, and love for the cause of fire technical standardization are indicative of outstanding 
achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that 
recognized national or international experts judge membership with GFSTC. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion 
that the alien's memberships in the associations were not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in 
a particular field). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Likewise, as it pertains to GFP A, the Petitioner presented screenshots reflecting the following 
individual membership requirements: 
• Fire protection engineering technicians of the engineer level or equivalent to the engineer level 
and above; 
• Fire protection professionals have the college degree or above and engaging in fire protection 
jobs for more than five years; and 
• Personages of all circles keen on the cause of fire protection and supporting the work of GFP A. 
The Petitioner did not establish that membership with GFP A requires outstanding achievements of its 
prospective members. Once again, the submitted evidence shows that GFP A membership is 
contingent upon achieving a certain level of engineering and higher education rather than attaining 
outstanding achievements in the field, as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 5 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership with GFP A. 
Finally, the Petitioner argues that he submitted the "qualifications in the related field of Light 
Engineering and Safety Engineering, which are both representative of [his] field of endeavor." While 
the record contains selected translations for the "Qualification Conditions for Senior Engineers 
Majored in Light Industry Engineering ofl I" "Qualification Conditions for 
Engineers Majored in Safey Engineering ofi f' and "High, Medium and Primary 
Qualifications for Major of !Light Industry Engineering," the Petitioner did not establish 
how evidence relating to the qualification conditions of engineers in thel I show 
that the membership requirements for NTCFP, GFSTC, and GFPA require outstanding achievements. 
Again, this criterion necessitates the Petitioner to show that his memberships in associations require 
outstanding achievements, as judged by reco~nized national or international experts, rather than the 
qualification conditions for engineers in I I 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that he "provided a plethora of original contributions to his field, resulting in 
widespread implementation of his developments, as evidenced by his numerous amounts of patents 
and subsequent business contracts." In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a 
petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field. 6 For example, a petitioner may show that his contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
I As it relates to his patents, the Petitioner provided evidence showing that he was named as an inventor 
for three Chinese patents: ' " "~-----------~ I t' and'~------------~' Moreover, the Petitioner submitted contracts 
between SDSIC and various Chinese railroads for the installation ofl I Tn 
addition, he offered contracts between GDSIC and Chinese businesses for the installatio~ o~ I I I for various projects. 
In general, a patent recognizes the originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish 
it as a contribution of major significance in the field. Although the contracts indicate the business 
activity of SDSIC and GDSIC, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the contracts involved the 
Petitioner's patents, as there are no identifying indicators reflecting that the intended installations 
utilized his patents or inventions. Even if SDSIC or GDSIC used his patents, the Petitioner did not 
show the relevance of the application of his patents inl • I and other construction projects. 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that his patents rise to a level of major significance in the overall 
field rather than limited to some construction projects by his companies in China. 7 Again, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the influence of his patents to the greater fire safety field beyond his 
two companies. 
s· ·1 1 th P 1m1 ar y, e 1 . et1t10ner c aims a e mcu e ev1 ence o th th . 1 d d .d fh. IS pu bl" t 1ca 10ns. Alh hth t OU!!I e recor d 
shows that he provided translations of three abstracts entitled, i 
t' l 
I" and l 
I' the Petitioner did not show the significance of this material. Publications and presentations 
are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the impact that his written work has had on the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner presented five recommendation letters that praised him for his professional 
achievements but do not demonstrate their major significance in the field. In general, the letters 
recount the Petitioner's patents and claim that "[m]any fire fighting technologies invented by [the 
Petitioner] have obtained patent protection which show that their originality and significance have 
acquired affirmation from the national authorities" I [ 8 Again, patents do not 
automatically show contributions of major significance in the field unless the Petitioner can show that 
the field considers them to be of such importance and how their impact on the field rises to the level 
required by this criterion. 
Moreover, the letters make broad statements without providing specific, detailed information 
explaining how the Petitioner's contributions are recognized by the field as being majorly significant. 
For instance! ~laimed that the Petitioner "often participates in the revision of industry standards 
and other professional activities which makes him the current status and development direction of the 
firefighting industry in real time." However, the letter does not elaborate on which industry standards 
the Petitioner has revised and how they are considered of major significance in the field. Likewise, 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each. 
5 
.__ _ ___.I discussed the Petitioner's plan "to optimize the setting of fire door and the key points in the 
construction of high-rise buildings," which "has attracted the attention of many fire technical experts 
and the interest of developers of high-rise buildings." Again, the letter does not provide further 
explanation describing the significance or amount of attention and interest his plan has garnered from 
the greater field. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his patents and work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 9 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion.10 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy any of the criteria regarding to memberships and original 
contributions of major significance. Although he claims eligibility for two additional criteria on 
appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues.11 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits 
determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
10 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 
Although the Petitioner has shown experience in the fire technology and safety field, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4597661 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a swimmer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner attends and swims for the University of .... 1 ----~lin .... l ______ __, 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The record reflects that the Petitioner received nationally 
and internationally recognized awards from swimming events, discussed farther below. Accordingly, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. 
Further, we find that the Petitioner demonstrated membership with the Uzbekistan .... ! _____ __, 
meeting the membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). In addition, the record reflects that the 
Petitioner established published material about her in two major media publications, satisfying the 
published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Because the Petitioner has shown that she 
fulfills three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(I )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence reflecting successes in some national and international swimming 
events, including at the youth and collegiate levels. In addition, she documented her membership with 
the 2012 Uzbekistan! ~ Moreover, she demonstrated that two media publications 
produced a few articles about her. The record, however, does not reflect that her achievements are 
reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
At the outset, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented her swimming career. Specifically, while 
the Petitioner presented evidence showing her finishes in selected tournaments and championships, 
she did not demonstrate her standings or results in the majority of her other swimming events. For 
example, the Petitioner provided documentation showing that she received a bronze medal at the 2009 
I !Games; three gold medals, five gold medals, and one gold medal at the 2010, 2011, and 
2015 Uzbekistan I !Championships, respectively; and a gold medal and a silver medal at 
the 2016 I I Championships. However, she did not show her placements at any of her 
other swimming competitions. For instance, she submitted a letter froml I 
.__ _________ __.I the Uzbekistan Swimming Federation (USF), who indicated numerous 
swimmin competitions in which the Petitioner partici ated but did not disclose her finishes, such as 
the 2005 Championships 2006 ham ionshi s 2006 I !Games, 2007 
C rnpi7cships, 2007 World 
Championships, 2008 World Junior Swijming 1hampionships, 2009 ~----;:::====:::.' 
Championships, 2009 Championships, 2009 World Championships, 2009 
Indoor Games, 2010 First I !Games, 201 0c=] Ga\lles, 2010 World 
Championships, 20111 I World Championships, 2013l._ _ _.j World Championships, 20141 I 
Games, and 2015 D World Championships. 
Moreover, although the Petitioner participated at the 20121 I she did not establish her 
results or standings. In fact, she offered a letter from I I the 
Uzbekistan National I I, who briefly stated that the Petitioner "was one of 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate 
the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
3 
---~'------~------ranking." Further, the record contains another letter 
from who claimed that the Petitioner "finished among the 
top 40 athletes in the world in the.__ _____ _.ranking." Inconsistencies in the record must be 
resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner provided conflicting letters, neither of which is 
supported by documentation of her official results, she did not demonstrate whether she finished in 
the top 40 or 50 at the 20121 las claimed in these letters. 
In addition, at the collegiate level, she submitted a letter from head coach ofO who 
indicated that the Petitioner placed third at the 2014 ,___ _ _,Championships and second at the 2015 
L-----r:,,...u..........,.pionships. Further,! I stated that the Petitioner won medals during the 2015 
-201 Cham ionships and was named CollegeSwimming.com'sl I swimmer of the Week. 
Whil ~-----' highlighted her swimming career atO the Petitioner did not show her complete 
swimming record with the university. 
The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
provides that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability 
is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).4 Here, the 
Petitioner's partial account of her swimming history does not meet this very high standard. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her personal swimming 
achievements have garnered her sustained national or international acclaim and that they reflect a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
In the case here, the Petitioner has not established that she received any awards since 2016. In fact, 
besides thel I Open Championships, she has not shown that she has competed against the top 
swimmers since 2015, let alone winning medals or awards, reflecting that she "is one of that small 
percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet 
the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Rather, the Petitioner has been recently swimming at 
Oagainst other collegiate athletes. She has not shown that she has been competing against renowned 
or accomplished swimmers, demonstrating that her latest "achievements have been recognized in the 
field of expertise." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Again, the Petitioner demonstrated that she was a member of the Uzbekistan I I for the 
20121 I. However, the Petitioner did not show that her single team membership over 
five years ago resulted in sustained national or international acclaim or reflects "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 
C.F.R. §204.5(h)(2) and (3). The record, for instance, does not contain any media coverage or other 
evidence showing that she received national or international recognition based on her membership 
with the Uzbekistan I I Furthermore, although the Petitioner provided a 2ress release 
from swimswam.org reflecting that she "has one more opportunity to post fast swims inl I 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
4 
meters and ualify for 20161 I competition," she did not establish that she qualified for the 2016 
_______ reflecting continued, sustained national or international acclaim on two consecutive 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3).5 
Regarding published material about her, the Petitioner offered one article (2011) from the Uzbekistan 
National News Agency and three press releases (2015) posted on swimswam.org.6 However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that four pieces published about her are consistent with the sustained 
national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show that her overall press coverage is 
indicative of a level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the limited media reporting reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field" or a "very 
high standard ... to present more extensive documentation than that required." See H.R. Rep. No. at 
59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner asserts that she performed in a leading or critical role with USF D the I I 
University Swim Team, and thel I Swim Team. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that her role was reflective of: or resulted in, widespread acclaim from her field or that she is 
considered to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Again, besides 
letters of recommendation and a few media articles relating to ~ she did not offer evidence 
establishing that she garnered extensive acclaim or recognition from the field. Further, the record does 
not reflect that she held leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments with distinguished 
reputations, nor does it show that her roles represent sustained national or international acclaim or a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish her eligibility for 
the benefit sought. Moreover, the Petitioner did not fully document her swimming career. Here, the 
Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top of 
their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top 
of her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 On appeal, the Petitioner claims that she "represented [USF] at two I I" However, as indicated above, the 
Petitioner did not submit independent evidence to corroborate her assertions. 
6 The Petitioner offered two additional press releases posted on swimswam.org that mentioned her as one of the competitors 
but did not reflect published material about her. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4699219 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a general management executive, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner satisfied 
only one of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates emplo7ent with I I as a partner in Latin America and as I I for I J, a division ofl ~ Because the Petitioner has not indicated or 
established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one initial evidentiary 
criterion, leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner argues that 
she meets five additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion before the Director. However, on appeal, she 
argues that she meets this criterion based on her membership with the International Project 
Management Association (IPMA) and the Central Florida Brazilian American Chamber of Commerce 
(CFBACC). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 2 
As it relates to IPMA, the Petitioner presented a letter from~----------~ of IPMA 
Brazil, who claimed that IPMA's board of directors "shall be composed of individuals who have 
demonstrated significant highly [sic] achievements in business, exceptional education, the professions 
and/or public service." In addition, I I indicated that board members should have 
1 See the Petitioner's resume submitted at the initial filing of the petition. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
2 
extensive and relevant leadership experience, at least an undergraduate degree, international 
experience, corporate governance, and the highest moral and ethical character. Moreover, D ~---___.I stated that he "strongly nominated her because of her daily involvement that goes above 
and beyond the call of duty." 
In his letter, howeverJ ldid not elaborate or define IPMA's meaning of "significant[ly] 
high[] achievements" to show that it meets the regulatory requirement of"outstanding achievements." 
Moreover, althoughl I referenced IPMA's by-laws, the Petitioner did not present them 
to support the letter's claims. Moreover, while the Petitioner submits evidence regarding the 
background and mission of IPMA, the documentation does not indicate the requirements for IPMA 
board membership. 3 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that IPMA board membership requires 
outstanding achievements as required by this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
show that the other requirements of education, work experience, and character traits represent 
outstanding accomplishments. 4 Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that recognized 
national or international experts judge IPMA board membership. In fact, according to D I I the IPMA board is "nominated and elected." Thus, recognized national or international 
experts do not judge IPMA board membership rather than based on an election system. 
Regarding CFBACC, she provides a letter from~ ________ ___.of CFBACC, who stated 
that the Petitioner has been "a member of this Chamber of Commerce since 11/1/2018 and on 
11/28/2018 was elected as a new Board members [sic] to serve CFBACC in 2019." However, the 
Petitioner filed the initial petition in June 2018. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing 
through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Therefore, the Petitioner's membership with 
CFBACC will not be considered on appeal. 
Notwithstanding the above, according to CFBACC's bylaws submitted by the Petitioner, "[i]ndividual 
membership shall be available to individuals expressing an interest in the Chamber." Hence, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that expressing an interest in CFBACC is tantamount to an outstanding 
achievements. Moreover, similar to IPMA, "[t]he Board of Directors of the Chamber shall be 
comprised of a total of thirteen (13) elected directors." Accordingly, CFBACC board membership is 
based on an election rather than outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that she satisfies this criterion. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (stating that the level of membership afforded to the alien 
must show in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought). 
4 Id. at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion that the alien's memberships in the associations were 
not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where the alien's membership 
was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in a pa1iicular field). 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
Again, the Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion before the Director. On appeal, she 
contends that she "assessed, evaluated and provided a judgment to companies in the form of reports 
regarding hundreds of high-level executive candidates upon request of large corporations." This 
regulatory criterion requires a petitioner to show that she has acted as a judge of the work of others in 
the same or an allied field of specialization. 5 
She submits a I !Report" for three job candidates, an "Interview Binder" for a job description 
and candidates' reports, and a "Candidate Profile." However, the Petitioner has not sufficiently shown 
that she participated as a judge of the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Rather, 
the evidence supplied by the Petitioner indicates that she prepared summaries based on a 
"methodology" and presented them to employers for them to decide whether the job vacancies should 
be filled by the candidates. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate her designation as a judge, 
nor did she establish that she actually judged the job candidates. Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
that her reports involved her participation as a judge of the work of others. Without farther 
documentation, her evidence regarding the preparation and summarization of reports is insufficient to 
meet this criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has she made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 6 For 
example, a petitioner may show that her contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner provides "a sample methodology" claiming that it "applied to a case study for the 
insurance industry." While the evidence reflects a presentation relating to expected talent trends in 
the insurance industry for the next five years, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the presentation 
significantly impacted her field in a major way. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, the Petitioner 
did not show the major significance of the "proposed methodology" discussed in the presentation. She 
did not, for example, establish the major influence of her methodology beyond the audience members. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
4 
Moreover, the Petitioner argues that her previously submitted recommendation letters from D ~----~I and I I "clearly show that the program developed by [her] extraordinary 
ability has been implemented by some of the world's leading companies which span various industries 
such as Aerospace and Defense." Although the letters praise the Petitioner for her "systematic and 
strategic methodology" and discussed how she achieved success in recruiting talent to fill positions, 
they did not elaborate on how her methodology has been of major significance in the overall field 
beyond the companies that utilized her contracted services. 7 For instanceJ ~ broadly claimed 
that the Petitioner's "new method, directly affected the productivity of the business, at [sic] a whole, 
and reshaped industry standards and parameters." Here, I I did not provide specific 
information explaining how the Petitioner's method impacted the greater field beyond an unnamed 
business. While the record contains other letters sufficiently showing that she performed in critical 
roles for specific organizations satisfying the regulation at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), a separate and 
distinct criterion, they do not demonstrate that she has made original contributions of major 
significance in the larger field. 
Furthermore, I I speculates on the potential influence of the Petitioner's methodology and on 
the possibility of being majorly significant at some point in the future. For examplej I asserted 
that her methodology "will give benefit to [the] United States ... that could promote economic 
growth," [a]ssessing the potential benefit for the US industry, and its economy ... I would endorse 
that US is expected to benefit from her, in the future," and she "will prove to be crucial in promoting 
revenue growth in organizations she assists." While I I indicates promise in the Petitioner's 
work, he did not demonstrate how her methodology already qualifies as a contribution of major 
significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential impacts. The significant nature of her 
methodology to the greater field has yet to be determined, measured, or established. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact her methodology has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 8 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language 
do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The 
US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff"d in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
5 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner contends that she provided evidence "clearly showing [that she] has commanded a high 
salary when comparing to other Human Resource Specialists (Recruiters) in Brazil." In order to meet 
this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the Beneficiary's salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 10 
At the outset, the Petitioner offers and references her response to the Director's request for evidence. 
However, a review of that response reflects that she made numerous unsupported assertions. 
Specifically, the Petitioner claimed to quote various websites and other sources without providing the 
printed screenshots or source material. Likewise, the Petitioner's response contained self-compiled 
tables with figures and statistics; however, she did not submit evidence to corroborate her assertions. 
Because the Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence, her uncorroborated claims lack probative, 
evidentiary value. 
Moreover, the Petitioner submits a letter fror I arl d 
who stated that the Petitioner "is a Partner,_ I andl !at I 1 ! a I !Company." In addition,! f indicated that the Petitioner ""oined the company 
in March 2011, and in December 2014 was promoted toL_ ___ --r------7 " Finally, b O I listed her gross payroll for each month in 2018 from and I I 
The Petitioner also presents "Consultant Bonus Calculation" from 2018 for I I 
andl I 
Although the Petitioner argues that she commands a high salary compared to other "Human Resource 
Specialists (Recruiters)" based on her employment with I I and I , , l the 
record indicates that she does not earn a salary as a human resource specialist at either company. 
Instead, the Petitioner receives compensation as a "Partner" and "Head"; therefore, she must show that 
her earnings are high compared to other partners and heads. Although she likens her salary to those 
of human resource specialists, she did not show that she commands a high salary "in relation to others 
in the field," such as other partners or heads in similar companies in Brazil. See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Even if we were to 
compare her salary to other human resource specialists in Brazil, she did not submit supporting, 
independent evidence of those salaries. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her 
bonuses were significantly high in relation to others. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she meets this criterion. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one evidentiary 
criterion, she does not meet any additional criteria on appeal regarding to memberships, judging, 
contributions, and high salary. While she claims eligibility for one additional criterion on appeal, 
relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), we need not reach this additional 
ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.11 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that 
it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does 
not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Petitioner has shown 
experience, the record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper 
echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 9868433 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a television and movie producer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In 
addition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be vice president and general manager at........,....,...----------.::....---0 in China. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one criterion, 
scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets five 
additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, the record does not reflect that 
the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that he "has served as I I of several TV productions which 
received awards for excellence" and "film and television productions are a collaborative effort, and 
no one person is 100% responsible for its success." He lists ten television series and various awards 
for "Outstanding Television Series," "Best Television Series," and "Top 100 Chinese TV Series." In 
order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, and 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The 
description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on the alien's 
receipt of the prizes or awards, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of prizes or awards.2 Here, 
the Petitioner presented documentation relating to awards won by the television series, including 
others involved in the productions such as actors, directors, and screenwriters, rather than by him. 
Although he served as an executive producer on the television series, the Petitioner did not establish 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
that any of the awarding ent1t1es acknowledged him as an award recipient or that the awarding 
authorities distinguished him from the others who worked on the productions. 
As the record does not reflect that he received any nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of television or movie producing, the Petitioner did not show that he 
meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner contends that he "was elected as thel lof the I I Committee for 
Production and Broadcast of TV Dramas and Online Dramas ofl I 
I. ,I in September 2018."3 In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 Associations may 
have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded to the alien must show that 
in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification 
is sought. 5 Here, the Petitioner does not argue for any of his positions as a level of membership but 
rather his general membership withl [6 
The record contains a screenshot from~I --~I website regarding membership conditions: 
The individual has been engaged in TV art creation, management, research, 
commentary and teaching for a long time and has achieved certain achievements. He 
or she has obtained professional titles of deputy senior or above, or won individual 
awards in provincial and national industry system. His or her works participated in the 
national award. He or she has made certain contributions to the management of TV 
art, enthusiastically promote the development of TV art, actively support the citizens 
of the People's Republic of China, and are willing to participate in the activities of this 
association (including professional committees) and group membership organizations. 
The individual supports the constitution of the association may apply to join the 
association as an individual member. 
3 The Petitioner also indicates that he was elected as I I of thel I committee within~ 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 Id. 
6 The record does not contain evidence regarding the requirements for an election t0 I , I or I I of 
a committee within! I nor did the Petitioner establish that being elected to a committee position requires outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
3 
Although I I requires "certain achievements," the Petitioner did not demonstrate that they rise to 
a level of "outstanding" as required by this regulatory criterion. Specifically, the Petitioner did not 
establish how obtaining a professional title of deputy senior or above constitutes an outstanding 
achievement. He did not show, for example, the relevance or significance of a deputy or senior 
professional title in the field. 
Similarly, whild I generally indicates receipt of provincial or national awards, the Petitioner did 
not establish how this elevates to an outstanding achievement. For instance, the Petitioner did not 
show tha~ !requires receipt of major, recognized awards rather than local or little known awards. 
Likewise, the screenshot does not elaborate on the meaning of "certain contributions" and how they 
represent outstanding achievements. Further, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how enthusiastically 
promoting television arts, actively supporting Chinese citizens, and willingly participating i~ I 
activities portrays outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, the screenshot indicates that "[t]he association will review on the materials and then submit 
to the Presidium for approval." However, the Petitioner did not show the composition of the presidium 
and demonstrate whether it contains nationally or internationally recognized experts in their 
disciplines or fields. 
Finally, the Petitioner indicates that he "has been a member of thtj I Radio and 
Television Association I, }" but does not explain how his membership qualifies for this criterion 
or points to which evidence, if any, demonstrates his eligibility. Furthermore, although the Petitioner 
previously submitted evidence of his membership and a screenshot relating to a brief description and 
background of the association, the evidence does not show the membership requirements and judging 
body. As such, the Petitioner did not establish thatl I requires outstanding achievements of its 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner claims eligibility for this criterion based on six items. In order to fulfill this criterion, 
the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 7 With the 
exception of an article published by Beiguang People, the remaining five items do not reflect published 
material about him relating to his work. Although they briefly mention his name or quote him for 
source material, they are not about him and pertain to various events in which he participated. 
Specifically, the sina.com screenshot reflects an article about a seminar that mentions the Petitioner as 
one of the attendees, the xinhuanet.com screenshot reflects an article about a conference that mentions 
the Petitioner as providing a speech, and the two screenshots from people.com.en and the screenshot 
from sohu.com reflect articles about a convention that quotes the Petitioner. Articles that are not about 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 
an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR­
RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about 
the actor). Further, the Petitioner did not include the required authors for the articles posted on 
sina.com, xinhuanet.com, and sohu.com. The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is 
not optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Regarding the article from Beiguang People, the Petitioner did not demonstrate publication in a 
professional or major trade or other major medium. The Petitioner makes no arguments on appeal 
regarding the publication's standing or status as a professional, major trade, or major medium. 
Moreover, the record reflects that at initial filing the Petitioner provided a copy of the article but did 
not include any evidence relating to Beiguang People. In response to the Director's request for 
evidence, the Petitioner submitted another copy of the article and evidence showing the same article 
posted on bgtv.cn. However, the Petitioner did not present any supporting evidence establishing that 
either Beiguang People or bgtv.cn constitutes a professional or major trade publication or other major 
medium.8 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 9 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner contends that he "significantly contributed original and pioneering work related to film 
and television, and he is also a distinguished film and television producer of exceptional abilities, 
exceedingly superior to what is expected at those at his level." Although he lists various television 
series, including awards received by them, the Petitioner does not identify what, if any, original 
contributions he made and how they have been of major significance in the field. He does not specify 
what "original and pioneering work" resulted from the production of television series and how the 
work influenced the field in a majorly significant manner. He did not show the impact his 
contributions have had on the overall field beyond the television series that he produced. 10 
Further, the Petitioner argues that he "submitted documentation to demonstrate that [he] has published 
his studies and research." Although we already considered his authorships and publications under the 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
9 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
5 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) relating to scholarly articles, the Petitioner did not provide 
evidence, for instance, of the impact or influence of the studies and research in the field to be 
considered majorly significant. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), ajf'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Likewise, the Petitioner makes brief 
references of"service as a member of the judge panel for major TV program awards; media coverage 
of his achievements and comments of the industry; and the extraordinary achievements he has 
accomplished by production of his works" without farther elaborating and explaining how the 
evidence demonstrates original contributions and how the field considers them to be of major 
significance consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner references three recommendation letters that opined on his abilities, skills, and 
personal traits. For instanceJ I stated that the Petitioner "has a rich experience in the 
field of TV series production, and has a comprehensive understanding and control of the TV series 
market and resources in China," and "f h ]e also has an unusually rigorous attitude toward and pursuit 
in the artistic quality of TV series." !indicated that "[m]any of [the Petitioner's] 
television series ... have produced groundbreaking and intricate characters and plots in a field where 
there is an abundance of monotony and remakes of prior television productions," and "[he] has the 
ability to add fresh new storylines and perspectives [] up to high artistic standards and advocate 
positive values." I !claimed that the Petitioner has an "acute sense on TV production 
of different resources" and "is extraordinary thoughtful in making selections of the resources of TV 
series in China." However, having a diverse, unique, or special skill set is not a contribution of major 
significance in-and-of-itself The record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already 
used those skills and talents to impact the field at a significant level, which the letters do not show. 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his artwork has had on the overall field. Letters 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value. 11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, and original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for an 
additional criterion on appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), we need not reach this 
additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
11 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
12 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
6 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.13 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that 
we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has experience in the television and film industry, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability.14 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 T&N Dec. 516, n.7 
(declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
14 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) of 
the Act. Accordingly. we reserve this issue. See INS, 429 U.S. at 25-26; see also 26 l&N Dec. at 516, n.7. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2024 In Re: 33564231 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a CEO/manager/entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
show that the Petitioner meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
The Director determined that while the Petitioner provided evidence showing that she performed in a 
leading or critical role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), she did not establish eligibility under any 
other criteria. Furthermore, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that she is 
coming to the United States to continue working in her area of extraordinary ability. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(5). 
The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Upon a thorough review of the record, 1 we conclude that the Petitioner has not overcome the 
Director's denial. On appeal, the Petitioner states that she will continue working in her area of 
extraordinary ability and asserts that she meets three of the initial evidentiary criteria: Participation as 
a judge, performing in a leading or critical role, and commanding a high salary in relation to others in 
the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (viii), and (ix). Since the appeal does not address the Director's 
conclusions regarding any of the other criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we consider those issues 
to be waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) ( citing Matter ofR­
A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012). 
In order to establish eligibility for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), petitioners should show 
that a person's salary or remuneration is significantly high in comparison to that of others working in 
the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
Relevant evidence may include tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of a person's 
remuneration, as well as comparative wage surveys in the person's field. Id. When assessing whether 
a person's comparison between their wages and wages from surveys is accurate, we consider factors 
such as the survey's description ofthe relevant occupation, the salary rate being measured, the location 
of the survey, and the survey's validity. Id. 
To establish eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner submitted evidence including salary information 
for nurses in I I Brazil, salary information for health services managers and technical 
responsible nurses throughout Brazil, and employment verification letters stating her wages in 
1 While this decision does not name all of the documents the Petitioner submitted, we have reviewed and considered each 
one. 
2 
positions in Brazil and Utah. 2 The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not provide salary 
documentation for comparable workers in her field, and so did not demonstrate that her remuneration 
was significantly high in comparison to such workers. 
On appeal, the Petitioner concedes that the positions for which she provided her salary information 
included managerial responsibilities, and so are not comparable to regular nursing positions, but 
contends that she nonetheless provided probative evidence for this criterion which the Director 
overlooked. Upon review, the wage evidence provided is insufficient to establish eligibility, for the 
reasons below. 
The letter from the Petitioner's employer from 2016 
to 2018, states that her "most recent remuneration" as a health services manager was R$ 16,748.15. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes Brazilian nursing regulations to assert that this position was that of a 
technical responsible nurse and states that her underlying evidence establishes that she received a 
significantly high salary froml IThe record includes a printout from glassdoor.com indicating 
that technical responsible nurses in Brazil were paid an average of R$ 3,000 to R$ 5,000 a month as 
of January 2024. However, the printout also states that this statistic is based on only 20 submitted 
wages. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (noting that "user-provided salary 
data ... may not be a valid comparison if, for example, too few users reported their salaries"). 
Furthermore, the printout does not differentiate between different regions of Brazil, employee 
experience levels, or employer types. Therefore, regardless of whether the I Iposition was 
comparable to that of a technical responsible nurse, the glassdoor.com salary survey is insufficient to 
provide a valid point of comparison and establish that the Petitioner's remuneration was significantly 
high. 
The letter from _____________________ the Petitioner's employer 
from 2013 to 2015, states that she was employed as a nurse in charge of primary health care/primary 
health/family health/public health, and that her monthly remuneration was R$ 9,825.09. The Petitioner 
states on appeal that this position is that of a health services manager. The record includes a printout 
from salario.com stating that Brazilian health services managers were paid an average ofR$ 7,123.75 
in January 2023. First, we note that the provided survey is for workers employed eight years after the 
Petitioner left her position at I I which limits its viability as a point of comparison. Second, the 
survey does not differentiate between different geographical regions, employer types, or worker 
experience levels. It therefore does not establish the wages of workers who are specifically 
comparable to the Petitioner. Id. Finally, while we acknowledge that the Petitioner's remuneration 
was higher than the average salary shown in the survey, the survey does not provide salary ranges, 
percentiles, or other means of establishing whether this difference was sufficiently significant to 
qualify for this criterion. The Petitioner therefore has not established eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) by showing that she received a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services in relation to others in her field. 
2 Because the Petitioner does not address her Utah wages on appeal, we consider this issue to be waived and will not 
address it further. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. 
3 We note that the letter does not specify whether this remuneration was for one month ofwork or whether it was calculated 
on some other basis. 
3 
We will reserve the issue of whether the Petitioner qualifies for the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) since adjudicating this criterion would, at most, establish eligibility for two criteria, 
which is less than the required three. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We therefore need not reach this issue 
or the issue of whether she will continue to work in her area of expertise, and will reserve them. See 
INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely 
advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not provided the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The petition will remain 
denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2024 In Re: 33756110 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a hospital, seeks classification of the Beneficiary, a rehabilitation therapist, as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the sciences. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets the initial evidentiary requirements of the extraordinary ability 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). 1 If the petitioner does not 
1 The Petitioner does not claim, and the evidence does not establish, that the Beneficiary has a one-time achievement under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
In its underlying filing, the Petitioner asserted that the Beneficiary meets four of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria: Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, 
membership in associations which require outstanding achievements of their members, original 
contributions of major significance to the field, and performing in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments with distinguished reputations. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(ii), (v), 
and (viii). The Director concluded that the evidence did not satisfy any of these criteria, and 
accordingly denied the petition. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a statement asserting that its previously-submitted evidence 
establishes eligibility. Upon review, we conclude that the record does not meet the required three 
evidentiary criteria, for the reasons below. 
A. Receipt of Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Prizes or Awards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion through her receipt of a certificate of 
excellence in ceramics from the I Iart department, an art department scholarship 
from thel I and a certification from the I I 
First, we note that the I I certificate is not a prize or award, but a professional credential granted 
to the Beneficiary because she had "given satisfactory evidence of the required qualifications to be 
registered as an Art Therapist by this credentials Board." We therefore will not consider this credential 
further. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual 
(stating that petitioners seeking to qualify under this criterion must first show that the person received 
a prize or award). 
Furthermore, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) requires qualifying prizes to be awarded for 
excellence in the beneficiary's field of endeavor. The Beneficiary is a rehabilitation therapist 
2 
specializing in art therapy. The certificate of excellence in ceramics and the art department 
scholarship, which are awarded to art students rather than practicing art therapists, are therefore not 
prizes in her field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the prestige of the ________________ 
and the should establish the eligibility ofthe prizes they confer. 
However, while the prestige of an awarding entity may help establish the recognition level of a prize 
or award, the plain language of the regulation requires a showing that the prize itself is nationally or 
internationally recognized as reflecting excellence in a person's field. Id.; see generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l) (noting that "certain" awards from well-known national institutions 
"may" fulfill the criterion, but that adjudicators should consider factors such as the significance of an 
award in a person's field, the criteria used to grant the award, the number of awardees, and limitations 
on competitors). 
Here, the record indicates that thel prize is limited to students at lwho are studying 
ceramics with the art department. Similarly, the I Ischolarship is limited to fine arts students 
studying atl lor two other colleges in the local area. While prizes which are open to members 
of well-known national institutions such as high-level research universities may qualify under this 
criterion, prizes which are limited to competitors within a certain locality or school generally do not 
reflect a national or international level of recognition. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, 
at F.2(B)(l ). The Petitioner submitted documentation showing that I I as a whole is an 
internationally recognized educational institution, but this documentation does not address the 
recognition level ofl I art department. The provided evidence therefore does not indicate that 
the I I art department is such a well-known national institution in the Petitioner's field that its 
prizes may qualify for this criterion despite being limited to its students. 
Finally, the record does not establish the significance of the Beneficiary's awards in her field, because 
there is no documentation of either the _____ awards being recognized by anyone outside 
the awarding entities. Id. The Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
B. Membership in Associations Which Require Outstanding Achievements of Their Members. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary qualifies for this criterion based on her membership in the 
academic honor societies Sigma Alpha Lambda and Phi Theta Kappa. However, the regulation 
requires a qualifying association to be in a person's field of extraordinary ability. Id. As noted by the 
Director, Sigma Alpha Lambda and Phi Theta Kappa are open to secondary school students in any 
field of study. There is no indication in the record that these associations are open to or intended for 
art therapists or rehabilitation therapists. 
Furthermore, this criterion requires a qualifying association's membership to be restricted to people 
with outstanding achievements in their fields, as judged by recognized national or international experts 
in that field. Id. Here, the record provides no information about who determines eligibility for Sigma 
Alpha Lambda or Phi Theta Kappa, and indicates that membership is based on a person's 
undergraduate grade point average. This does not establish that joining either of these associations 
requires outstanding achievements in the fields of art or rehabilitative therapy as judged by nationally 
3 
or internationally recognized experts in those fields. Therefore, the Petitioner has not provided 
evidence meeting the membership criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Adjudicating the Beneficiary's qualifications for the original contributions criterion and the lead or 
critical role criterion would, at most, result in showing her eligibility for two criteria, which is less 
than the required three. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We therefore need not reach these issues, and will 
reserve them. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required 
to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where the applicant did not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
The Petitioner has not provided the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and so has not 
demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The petition will 
remain denied. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2024 In Re: 35063680 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a systems administrator specializing in cyber security, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, either 
through his receipt of a major internationally recognized award or, in the alternative, by meeting at 
least three of ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations. The matter is now before us on appeal 
pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 1 If a petitioner meets either standard, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCTS) must then make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them 
among the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th 
Cir.2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffulfilling 
the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding USCIS' two-step analysis of 
extraordinary ability "consistent with the governing statute and regulation"). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, who claims extraordinary ability in the fields of cybersecurity and computer science, 
has not indicated or shown that he has received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, 
the issue before us on appeal is whether he has established that he meets at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The 
Petitioner claimed he could meet three ofthe ten criteria, including 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), 
and (vi), based, respectively, on his submission of evidence of his memberships in associations in his 
field, his original contributions in his field, and his authorship of scholarly articles. 2 The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (vi) but did not 
demonstrate his membership in an association that requires outstanding achievements as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in the field. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he meets at least three ofthe ten evidentiary criteria. Accordingly, he has not established his eligibility 
for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
1. Evidence of Membership in Associations 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) calls for "documentation ofthe [noncitizen's] membership 
in associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements 
1 Additionally, if the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit 
"comparable evidence" to establish their eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 A cover letter from counsel, submitted at the time of filing, stated the Petitioner could meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), which requires evidence of participation as a judge of the work of others in the same field or an allied 
field. However, the Petitioner did not submit evidence in support of this criterion, did not address it in his response to the 
Director's request for evidence, and does not contest the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criterion. Any 
ground ofineligibility that is not raised on appeal is waived. See Matter o(O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
(citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). The Petitioner has not claimed he can meet the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (vii), (viii), (ix) and (x). 
2 
of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields." 
Here, the Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his membership in the International 
Systems Security Association (ISSA), noting that this association "has a stellar reputation and requires 
outstanding achievements of its members."3 The Petitioner provided a copy of his ISSA membership 
card indicating that he is a general member of this association, along with a copy of the 2021 Annual 
ISSA International Report. 
In a request for evidence (RFE) the Director advised the Petitioner that the initial evidence did not 
demonstrate that ISSA requires outstanding achievements as a condition for membership and that 
prospective members' achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
field, as required by the plain language of the regulation. 
In response, the Petitioner reasserted his eligibility based on his ISSA membership and provided a 
copy ofISSA's "International Association Bylaws." Membership is addressed in the bylaws at article 
III, which states: 
Membership in the Association is based upon one having primary interest or active 
involvement in information systems security in the educational, private or public sector. 
In addition, membership is contingent upon interest in the purposes and objectives of 
the Association as stated in Article II and observance of the Code of Ethics as a 
prerequisite for and as a condition of continued affiliation with the Association. 
Membership is defined in policy by the Board of Directors, is subject to the provisions 
of the Articles oflncorporation and Bylaws and is not transferable or assignable. 
The 2021 Annual ISSA International Report, which the Petitioner resubmitted in response to the RFE, 
describes the association's "Fellows and Distinguished Fellows Program" which honors "established 
cyber professionals with demonstrated success and contributions to the industry." The annual report 
mentions that an ISSA Fellow must have 8 years ofmembership in the association, 12 years ofrelevant 
professional experience, and 5 years of "significant performance in the profession," while an ISSA 
Distinguished Fellow must have 12 years of association membership, 16 years of professional 
experience in the field, 10 years of documented exceptional service to the security community and a 
"significant contribution to security posture or capability." As noted, the Petitioner's membership 
card indicates his "general membership" in the ISSA. 
The Director concluded the Petitioner did not demonstrate he meets the plain language of the criterion 
because the evidence provided, including the ISSA bylaws, did not demonstrate that this association 
requires outstanding achievement of members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields. 
3 At the time of filing, the Petitioner also provided a certificate indicating he was admitted as a member of "ISACA" in 
July 2023. However, he did not submit any supporting evidence about this association or reference this membership in his 
statement addressing the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the recent United States Supreme Cout decision in Loper Bright 
Enterprises v. Raimondo, 144 S.Ct. 2244 (2024) "means that the USCIS must take a more literal 
interpretation of criteria in the [ extraordinary ability] process" and "places a much tighter leash on a 
federal agency's ability to interpret laws." 
In his brief: the Petitioner also highlights a portion of the Kazarian decision in which the court 
determined that the AAO improperly imposed a novel evidentiary requirement when evaluating 
evidence submitted under the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner asserts: 
Please keep in mind that generating merely two (2) scholarly articles legally satisfies 
the Scholarly Articles criterion. Also, merely "reviewing 'diploma works' for fellow 
students at one's own university" as Dr. Kazarian did in the landmark Kazarian case 
satisfies the "Service as a Judge criterion. Both of these standards are remarkable [sic] 
low. These two standards are almost comically law [sic]. No other legal interpretation 
is reasonably or legally acceptable. 
The Petitioner maintains that the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) "should also be adjudicated in 
a similar legal manner" and that "[ t ]he difficulty of satisfying the Membership in Association criterion 
must be ofequal ease as 'scholarly articles' and 'serving as a judge."' He contends that "under a proper 
adjudication in line with both Kazarian and Loper, and taking into account all the evidence submitted 
with his case, [he] has satisfied the 'Membership in Associations' criterion." 
The Petitioner's assertions are not persuasive. First, the Petitioner has not addressed the specific 
evidence he submitted in support of the membership criterion and why he believes it demonstrates his 
eligibility, nor has he contested the Director's stated reasons for finding that evidence to be insufficient 
to meet the criterion. The record supports the Director's conclusion that the ISSA bylaws and annual 
report do not establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that one must have outstanding 
achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts, to be admitted to the ISSA as 
a general member. The Director did not, as implied by the Petitioner, impose a novel evidentiary 
requirement by requiring the Petitioner to satisfy the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record reflects that membership in the ISSA "is based upon one having primary interest or active 
involvement in information systems security in the educational, private or public sector" and is 
"contingent upon interest in the purposes and objectives of the Association." Nothing in this language 
indicates or implies that a prospective member must demonstrate "outstanding achievements" in the 
field ofinformation systems security to be admitted to the ISSA. Further, the submitted evidence does 
not address the !SSA's process for admitting new members and therefore does not demonstrate that 
this process involves review by recognized national or international experts in the field who judge the 
achievements of prospective members. 
Second, the Petitioner's assertion that Loper requires USCIS to "re-examine its adjudication" of the 
criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) misinterprets the reach of the Supreme Court's decision. 
Loper overturned Chevron USA v. Natural Resources Defense Council, 467 U.S. 837 (1984), ruling 
that federal courts need not defer to agencies' reasonable interpretations of ambiguous federal laws. 
Rather, Loper provides the judiciary with the sole prerogative to "say what the law is," stating: "Courts 
4 
must exercise their independent judgment in deciding whether an agency has acted within its statutory 
authority." Loper, 144 S. Ct. at 2257, 2273. 
Loper affects federal courts, not federal agencies. A federal court reviewing our interpretation of an 
ambiguous statute must follow Loper. But Loper does not change how we interpret such laws or 
mandate, as the Petitioner suggests, an immediate change in how USCIS adjudicates immigrant 
petitions for noncitizens of extraordinary ability. 
Moreover, Loper involved an agency's interpretation of a statute. Loper, 144 S.Ct. at 2254-56. The 
Director's denial ofthis petition, and our adjudication ofthis appeal, rest on a determination ofwhether 
the Petitioner met his burden to demonstrate that he meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x); it is not based on the agency's interpretation of a statute. Even if the 
regulations are ambiguous, our interpretation of them would merit deference under Auer v. Robbins, 
519 U.S. 452 (1997), which Loper did not reverse. See, e.g., United States v. Boler, 115 F.4th 316, 
322 n.4 (4th Cir. 2024) (declining to apply Loper to an issue involving an agency's interpretation of 
its own regulations). 
Finally, we acknowledge the Petitioner's claim that there is a "low bar" for meeting certain criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), specifically, the criteria pertaining to publication of scholarly 
articles and participation as a judge of the work of others. In this regard, agency policy guidance 
recognizes that, based on the plain language of the regulations, some of the criteria have multiple 
elements and/or clear qualitative requirements and some do not. For example, participating as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization alone, regardless of the 
circumstances, should satisfy the regulatory criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
The Petitioner suggests that there should be a similarly "low bar" for meeting the membership criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) but overlooks the multiple elements that must be met based on the plain 
language of that regulation. An individual cannot satisfy this criterion simply by providing evidence 
of their membership in an association in their field. Rather, a petitioner must submit evidence 
demonstrating that they are a member of an association in their field that requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. As noted, the Director did not, 
as suggested by the Petitioner, improperly impose a novel evidentiary requirement that is not found in 
the plain language of the membership criterion. 
The submitted evidence is insufficient to meet the Petitioner's burden to demonstrate that he meets all 
elements ofthe plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). Although the Petitioner 
established that he is a member of ISSA, the Director properly concluded that the submitted ISSA 
bylaws and annual report do not show that recognized national or international experts judged the 
Petitioner as having attained outstanding achievements in his field as a condition for admitting him as 
a general member. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
2. Evidence of Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) calls for "[e]vidence of the [noncitizen's] authorship of 
scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." 
5 
We withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner met this criterion. The Petitioner 
submitted several papers and one presentation slide deck in support of this criterion. However, the 
record does not demonstrate whether or where these articles and presentation were published and 
therefore does not contain evidence that they were published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, as required by the regulations. Rather, the identifying information 
on the submitted papers and presentation indicate that they were written by the Petitioner to fulfill his 
graduate program course requirements at I I 
The Director noted this evidentiary deficiency in the RFE and requested additional documentary 
evidence "to establish that the publications in which the articles appear are professional publications, 
trade publications or other major media." In response to the RFE, the Petitioner emphasized that the 
previously submitted papers qualify as "scholarly articles" based on the guidance and examples 
provided for adjudication of this criterion in the USCIS Policy Manual. However, the RFE response 
did not include evidence demonstrating that any of the submitted papers had been published in a 
professional publication, such as a peer reviewed journal, a major trade publication, or other major 
media. Therefore, the record does not support the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
this criterion. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
Because the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets 
two ofthe three claimed evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), he cannot satisfy the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification. As such, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20 and further addressed at 6 USCIS Policy Manual at F.2(B)(2). Further, 
we need not address the Petitioner's contention that "the new 'Loper' case also means that the AAO 
must put an end to the extra-statutory 'Final Merits Determination" in adjudicating extraordinary 
ability cases." Because the Applicant/Petitioner is ineligible for the benefit sought, we need not reach, 
and therefore reserve, these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (per curiam) 
(holding that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are 
unnecessary to the ultimate decision). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award or that he 
satisfied at least three often initial regulatory criteria, and therefore has not demonstrated his eligibility 
as an individual of extraordinary ability. Moreover, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Although we are not required to conduct a final merits determination, we nevertheless note that the 
Petitioner has not shown that the significance ofhis work to date is indicative ofthe required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
6 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2024 In Re: 35116908 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens who can demonstrate extraordinary 
ability through national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner's claimed extraordinary ability in "law and religion" falls within "the fields 
of sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics" as required by the statute. The Director further 
determined the Petitioner did not satisfy the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, 
either through his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or, in the alternative, by 
meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria set forth in the regulations . The matter is now 
before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise 
commensurate with "one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Evidence of extraordinary ability must initially demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, 
international recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If a petitioner meets either standard, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) must then make a final merits determination as to whether the record, as a whole, 
establishes their sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them 
among the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th 
Cir.2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, iffulfilling 
the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding USCIS' two-step analysis of 
extraordinary ability "consistent with the governing statute and regulation"). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner's qualifications include a bachelor's degree in law from a Brazilian university and post­
graduate studies in international law, civil law, business administration, and theology. The Petitioner 
also received a Master ofLaw (LLM) in comparative law from and at the 
time of filing, was enrolled in a doctoral program in law and religion. The record demonstrates that 
his professional background includes management-level positions in law and public affairs within The I Iin Brazil, the private practice of corporate and business 
law, academic and scholarly activities in the fields oflaw, religion and human rights, and membership 
in a national-level government committee focused on public policies for the promotion of religious 
freedom in Brazil. 
A. Petitioner's Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Director denied the petition, in part, based on a conclusion that the Petitioner "intends to work as 
a lawyer (records specialist) in the field of law and religion" and "submitted no evidence establishing 
that law and religion are in the fields of sciences, arts, education, business or athletics as required 
under Section 203(b)(l)(A) of [the Act]." We will withdraw the Director's determination that the 
Petitioner's area of extraordinary ability does not fall within the fields designated by the statute. 
On part 6 of the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, where asked to provide 
information about his proposed employment in the United States, the Petitioner indicated he will focus 
on "promotion of religious freedom and diversity in the workplace, training, events, advocacy and 
more." 1 In an accompanying statement, the Petitioner provided an in-depth discussion of his 
background and stated his intent to continue his work "in the area of law and religion" in the United 
States, but did not elaborate on his specific plans. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director 
requested clarification regarding his intended occupation and area of extraordinary ability. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner clarified his intent to work in the United States as a consultant 
and advisor in the field of business, indicating he would provide companies and organizations with 
training and other professional services designed to assist employers with protecting religious freedom 
and diversity in the workplace. The Director, citing Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169 (Comm'r 
1 At part 5 of the petition, the Petitioner stated his occupation as "confidential records specialist." The record reflects his 
employment in this position since 2024, but he did not indicate his proposed employment would be in this occupation. 
2 
1998), found that the Petitioner had made an impermissible material change to his pettt10n. 
Specifically, the Director determined that he sought to "redefine" his field of endeavor in order to 
claim extraordinary ability in the field of business. The Director did not discuss the evidence 
submitted in response to the RFE, which included a business plan, an expert opinion, and additional 
reference letters detailing the Petitioner's relevant professional experience in management and 
business consultancy. 
Given the Petitioner's initial statement regarding his intended employment at part 6 ofthe Form I-140, 
his more detailed plan to provide consulting and advisory services related to "religious freedom and 
diversity in the workplace" did not represent a material change to the petition or a departure from his 
previous experience. The information and evidence relating to the Petitioner's area of expertise and 
intended employment in the United States is sufficient to demonstrate that his occupation falls within 
the purview of the field "business" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. We therefore withdraw 
the Director's determination that he is statutorily ineligible for this classification based on his claimed 
area of extraordinary ability. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner did not claim or document his receipt of a major internationally recognized award. See 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3). Thus, to establish extraordinary ability, he must meet at least three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one criterion, relating to his performance in leading or 
critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation, under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record supports the Director's determination. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he submitted sufficient evidence to meet up to six additional criteria based on his receipt of 
nationally recognized awards, memberships in associations, published materials about him, 
participation as a judge of the work of others, authorship of scholarly articles, and high salary. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iv), (vi) and (ix). As discussed below, we conclude the Petitioner has 
satisfied the requirements of at least two additional criteria. 
1. Participation as a Judge 
This criterion requires "evidence of the [noncitizen's] participation, either individually or on a panel, 
as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which classification 
is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Examples ofjudging the work of others may include activities 
such as peer reviewing papers submitted for publication in a scholarly journal or for presentation at a 
scholarly conference. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy­
manual. 
________ The Petitioner claimed eli eer review activities he performed as 
a fellow of based at the I 
The Petitioner provided a letter from lead researcher confirming 
his affiliation with the Center and his participation in the peer review process for scholarly articles 
published by I I He also provided copies of email communications from I !organizing 
committee requesting that he review several articles, along with confirmation that he completed his 
3 I 
I review of at least two of those articles. The Director, noting that it appeared the Petitioner had only 
"proofread" the articles, concluded that his review activities did not satisfy this criterion. 
The Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not engage in qualifying peer review activities is not 
supported by the record and is therefore withdrawn. While the evidence indicates that the Petitioner 
corrected typographical and grammatical errors as part of his review, the record demonstrates that 
gave the Petitioner license to edit and revise the content of articles he reviewed based on his 
subject matter expertise in his field; he was not engaged by I I editorial staff to act as a 
proofreader. The Petitioner's documented peer review activities are consistent with the examples 
provided in the USCIS Policy Manual and demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he 
meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2. Authorship of Scholarly Articles 
This criterion requires submission of"[e ]vidence of the [ noncitizen' s] authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media." See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). In the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation or philosophical discourse, is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a research institution, and will generally have footnotes, endnotes or a 
bibliography. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). For other fields a scholarly 
article should be written for learned persons in the field. Id. In evaluating whether a submitted 
publication is a professional publication, we consider the intended audience of the publication. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that his co-authored article titled 
which was published by Consulex Legal Review in 2014, satisfies this criterion. 
We agree. The record supports the Petitioner's claim that the article, which contains references and 
endnotes, was written for learned persons in the legal profession and published in a professional 
publication. Therefore, we withdraw the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not satisfy 
this criterion. 
B. Basis for Remand 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has overcome the Director's determination that he is statutorily 
ineligible for this classification based on his claimed field of extraordinary ability. Further, the 
Petitioner has submitted the required initial evidence by satisfying at least three of the ten criteria at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which is sufficient for the case to proceed to a final merits determination. We 
therefore need not discuss the other claimed criteria and reserve discussion of them. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (per curium) (holding that agencies are not required to make 
"purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision). 
The next step is to determine whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim; that he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor; and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. A final merits determination involves analyzing an individual's 
accomplishments and weighing the totality of the evidence to determine if their achievements are 
sufficient to demonstrate extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of 
4 
the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and see generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(8)(2). 
The Director did not make a final merits determination. Rather than make such a determination in the 
first instance, we will remand the matter. The Director should consider any potentially relevant 
evidence of record, even it does not fit one of the regulatory criteria or is not comparable evidence. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2). The Petitioner bears the burden of 
explaining the evidence's significance, and how it demonstrates his possession of sustained national 
or international acclaim and recognition in his field. Id. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner demonstrated that he seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
business under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and that he has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements for this classification. Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director for a final 
merits determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 18, 2024 In Re: 34812774 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur in the artificial intelligence (Al)/machine learning field, seeks 
classification under the employment-based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a 
noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Successful petitioners for U.S. permanent residence in this 
category must demonstrate "sustained national and international acclaim" and extensively document 
recognition of their achievements in their fields. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition and dismissed the Petitioner's following 
motion to reconsider. The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the requested category's 
ten evidentiary requirements -one less than needed for a final merits determination. On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that she satisfied four additional evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we conclude that she met at least one additional evidentiary requirement -contributions of 
major significance in her field -but did not demonstrate her required intent to continue working in the 
field in the United States. We will therefore withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter 
for entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that they: 
• Have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• Seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Through their work, would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means expertise commensurate with "one of that small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence of 
extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary criteria. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either evidentiary standard and the requirements at section 203(b )( 1 )( A )(ii), (iii) 
of the Act, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) must then make a final merits 
determination. To merit approval, the record -as a whole -must establish a petitioner's sustained 
national or international acclaim and recognized achievements placing them among the small 
percentage at their field's very top. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 391 (5th Cir. 2022) (finding 
USCIS' two-step analysis of extraordinary ability "consistent with the governing statute and 
regulation"); see generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Petitioner and Her Field 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Chilean national and citizen, received bachelor's and master's 
degrees in architecture and architecture technologies, respectively, from a university in her home 
country. A U.S. university later awarded her master's and doctorate degrees in the design and 
computation field. Her doctoral research focused on AT applications for learned simulations in the 
architecture, engineering, and construction industries. She then served as a post-doctoral fellow at the 
U.S. university, researching polymer modeling with physics learned simulations. 
The Petitioner also served as a fellow in a U.S. climate and sustainability consortium. Further, she co­
founded a U.S. company that seeks to develop compostable and biodegradable alternatives to 
traditional plastic packaging and serves as the firm's chief executive officer (CEO). 
The Petitioner does not claim -nor does the record indicate -her receipt of a major internationally 
recognized award. She must therefore meet at least three of the ten evidentiary requirements at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The record supports the Director's determinations that she submitted evidence of her participation as 
a judge of others' work in her field and her authorship of scholarly articles in the field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she also provided proof of: 
• Her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in her field; 
• Published material about her and her work in the field; 
• Her original contributions of major significance in the field; and 
• Her commandment of significantly high remuneration for her services. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (v), (ix). 
1 If an evidentiary criterion does not "readily apply" to a petitioner's occupation, they may submit "comparable evidence" 
to establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
To satisfy an additional evidentiary criterion, the Petitioner's documentation must objectively meet 
the parameters of an applicable regulatory description. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B). 
B. The Petitioner Submitted Evidence of Original Contributions of Major Significance in Her Field 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence of the [ noncitizen] 's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, 
or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). When 
adjudicating this requirement, USCIS first determines whether a petitioner has made original 
contributions in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manua!F.2(B)(l), Criterion 5. The Agency 
then considers whether the original contributions are of major significance to the field. Id. 
The Petitioner claims two original contributions ofmajor significance in the AI/machine learning field: 
her development of software that predicts the properties of polymers, which are used to make plastics; 
and her creation of software models regarding pedestrian flow characteristics. Several support letters 
from university professors demonstrate the originality and major significance of her contributions. 
See Rubin v. Miller, 478 F.Supp.3d 499, 505-06 (S.D.N.Y. 2020) (finding that detailed opinion letters 
established the major significance of a petitioner's original contributions in the neuroscience field). 
The Petitioner created the edestrian flow models while workin on her doctoral dissertation: a digital 
representation of _________ Using sensors, she 
collected data from 8,000 pedestrians and calculated their speeds and time. She found that pedestrians 
behave similarly in different locations and that architectural layouts greatly affect people's 
movements. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not demonstrate the major significance of her 
contribution. But the Director overlooked support letters that she submitted. An assistant professor 
of architecture and environmental design cited the Petitioner's work on pedestrian flow and describes 
it as "at the forefront of machine learning and its applications to environmental problems." The 
professor stated: "The resulting model provides a framework for understanding human-space 
interaction and enhancing future designs. It offers valuable insights into how people navigate complex 
spaces and provides real-time feedback for evaluating building designs in a simulated environment." 
An assistant professor of architecture technology explained that prior modeling software had limited 
ability to simulate critical aspects of pedestrian movement, such as exploration. He said that the 
Petitioner's "method offers a new approach for architects to design spaces that are more user-friendly 
and optimized for human movement." He also said that the Petitioner's "work provides valuable 
insights into machine learning and its practical applications, making it an essential contribution to the 
field." 
Using AI/machine learning principles she learned in her doctoral work, the Petitioner developed the 
polymer-predicting software while a post-doctoral fellow. She used "generative reinforcement 
learning" to predict polymer properties. Because traditional molecular dynamics tools are expensive 
and time-consuming, she developed a software that combines three-dimensional representations, 
polymer physics, machine learning, and chemical information to decrease computational costs of 
molecular simulation and extend its capabilities to more complex systems. 
3 
A U.S. professor of materials science and engineering described the Petitioner's polymer software as 
"a groundbreaking achievement in computational materials science." He said that she "has created a 
tool that promises to revolutionize our ability to predict, optimize, and comprehend the behavior of 
complex molecular systems. The potential applications ... are far-reaching, spanning fields such as 
drug discovery, materials science, environmental engineering, and more." The managing partner of a 
venture capital fund said that his firm engaged in nine months of research before investing in the 
Petitioner's company. He stated: "She has created a unique AI platform that will be extremely 
difficult to replicate and will bring about an entirely new way of thinking about bio-based plastic 
alternatives. . . . We believe in her vision and capabilities as a CEO to remove the need for 
petrochemical-based plastics in all packaging." 
The letters on the Petitioner's behalf are consistent, credible, uncontroverted, and supported by other 
evidence of record. She has therefore submitted evidence of original contributions of major 
significance in her field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), Criterion 5 ("Detailed 
letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance ofthe person's contribution may 
... provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major significance.") 
As the Petitioner has met at least three of the category's evidentiary requirements, we will withdraw 
the Director's contrary decision. We need not reach and hereby reserve her appellate arguments 
regarding the other evidentiary criteria she claims to have met. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 
25 (1976) (per curiam) (holding that agencies need not make "purely advisory findings" on issues 
unnecessary to their ultimate decisions). 
C. The Petitioner Did Not Establish Her Intent to Continue Working in Her Field in the United States 
The Petitioner has satisfied the requested category's evidentiary requirements. Although unaddressed 
by the Director, however, she has not met all the category's statutory criteria. 
Noncitizens with extraordinary ability must 
"seek[] to enter the United States to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability." Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act. The classification requires no job 
offer or certification from the U.S. Department of Labor. But a petition must include "clear evidence 
that the [ noncitizen] is coming to the United States to continue work in the area ofexpertise." 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). Such evidence may include: 
• A letter from a prospective employer; 
• Evidence of a prearranged commitment, such as a contract; or 
• A petitioner's statement detailing plans on how they intend to continue their work in the United 
States. 
The Petitioner submitted a copy of her most recent U.S. fellowship agreement. But the two-year pact 
indicates its expiration in September 2023. Contrary to section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act, the record 
lacks evidence ofthe Petitioner's intent to continue working in the machine learning field in the United 
States after her proposed attainment of U.S. permanent residence. 
The Director did not notify the Petitioner of this evidentiary defect. We will therefore remand the 
matter. On remand, the Director should inform the Petitioner of the required evidence and provide 
4 
her with a reasonable opportunity to submit it. If supported by the record, the Director may notify her 
of any additional potential denial grounds. 
If the Petitioner does not establish her intent to continue working in her field in the United States, the 
Director should issue a new decision denying the petition. If, however, she demonstrates the requisite 
intent, the Director must make a final merits determination before approving or denying the filing. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner satisfied the requisite three evidentiary criteria. She did not, however, demonstrate her 
intent to continue working in her field in the United States. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4951737 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 19, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a researcher in biomedical engineering , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated ~mployment as a _postdo9tora] fejjow atl I J Jnjyersity School of 
.__ _______ .,.... pursumg research on usmg new I~. _____________ _,J technology 
to correct mutations that cause disease. The record shows that gene therapy for the treatment of 
congenital diseases is a rapidly growing field, and the development of new I lagents is an 
important topic of current research internationally. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner 
fulfilled two of the initial evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner reviewed papers for 
journals. In addition, the Petitioner has authored scholarly articles in professional publications. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles 
criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets an additional evidentiary criterion, discussed below. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the record does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner argues that the Director did not consider all of his documentation and mischaracterized 
some of the evidence submitted. He contends that the testimonial letters, citations to his work, and 
commercialization of and licensing interest in his work demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
2 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner references his submission of letters from colleagues and other scientists and experts 
regarding his original contributions in his field.2 The letters summarize the Petitioner's research 
achievements and broadly discuss the potential impact of his research in the fields of biomedical 
engineering and gene therapy. However, they do not establish that his original contributions are 
already recognized as majorly significant within these fields. 
For example,.__ ________ ~·' the Petitioner's doctoral advisor at the University ofl I 
reviews some of the findings of the Petitioner's doctoral research involving thel I 
LJnanoparticle complexes used in gene therapy applications. He credits the Petitioner's research 
in gene therapy with having "identified a new, two-pronged strategy in which I ~s delivered using 
one type of nanoparticle and then intracellular release of the cargo is triggered by a separate agent." 
He lists several scientific teams that have cited to the Petitioner's work, including! I 
from Brazil who "describe an application of a two-pronged delivery strategy similar to [the 
Petitioner's] work." He states that the Petitioner's work provides new insights into the properties of I I nanoparticles . 
.__ _______ ~ the Petitioner's current postdoctoral mentor atl explains that the 
Petitioner's main area of research in the field of gene therapy involves the use of the protein 
I Ito correct mutations in the gene that causes He indicates that the 
Petitioner has worked to optimize the ability of.__ ____ ~ to be delivered into airway stem cells 
by modifyin cph:ure condjfions, and has designed correction sequences for nearly 100% of mutations 
that cause ~l ---~- states that the Petitioner's leadership of the I !editing group for 0 
at was critical for securing a $1.5 million research grant from the I I 
.__ ________ ~and $1 million in additional private funding. He praises the Petitioner's 
"leadership in developing a creative and novel approach to potentially curing a devastating genetic 
disease." He indicates that the Petitioner has published 10 journal articles, in highly-ranked journals 
such as Molecular Pharmaceutics, that have received 118 citations in total, which he characterizes as 
"a respectable amount for any scholar, and an impressive number among his peers in the field." 
However, the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner's research findings, while original, 
are already recognized as a contribution of major significance in the field. 
,,__ ___ ...i.....::a::;:;:ls;:..;o provides that the Petitioner has been part ofl l's collaboration with I~-~ 
~---.---~-~ to improve in vivo ene therapy, and the Petitioner's ongoing research has been used 
b to market the ariants that he identified. The record includes a letter fron0 
senior director of R&D, confirming that the company "commercialized 
.__p_r_o_d_u-ct_s_b_a_s_e_d_o_n_[t_h_e_P_e_t_.itioner's] research involvin~ !variants," and a letter froml~-~ I I expressing interest in licensing some of the Petitioner's work. However, the Petitioner 
has not provided evidence that the marketed research findings of the Petitioner, or the evidence of 
interest in licensing his work, have already affected the field of biomedical engineering or gene 
therapy, so that we can conclude that the Petitioner's research contribution has had a significant 
influence on his field. 
2 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
3 
~-------~ a postdoctoral research scientist at the University o ~--------~ 
states that his team has cited to the Petitioner's research findings and indicates that the Petitioner's 
"information on the behavior of nano articles within human cells" was "instrumental" in aiding their 
experiment's success . .......,. __________ ~ a professor of chemistry at the University of I ~ and CEO o asserts that the Petitioner's work indicating that the 
presence of th_~----~~ may affect the behavior of the studied nanoparticles "highlights a 
significant vulnerability of conventional research methods to characterize the biological activity of 
nanoparticle-based therapies." I I a professor of chemical engineering a~ I 
University, states that he has previously cited to the Petitioner's work on multiple occasions, and 
asserts that the Petitioner's research "provides critical information for the farther development o~ I 
I I agents necessary to advance gene therapy." 
Within the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), he provided a letter from 
~----------;::::=::::=..-=a~p:::..:r:...:::o:...:::fe=.:s:.:;sor of pediatrics and genetics atl I University 
and co-chair of thel I Foundation Grants Review Committee. He explains that although I I gene editing has been attempted, "the inability to achieve high level~ne correction 
in airway stern cells has prevented the clinical applicability of the technology to curq__J He indicates 
that the Petitioner's work is significant because he has successfully developed methods that achieve a 
high level of correction of a cornrnonOnutationJ l when compared to previous attempts. 
Overall, the letters recognize the originality, importance, and prospective benefit of the Petitioner's 
work, but do not contain detailed information showing the unusual influence or high impact the 
Petitioner's contributions have already had on the overall field. These and other letters not specifically 
mentioned, as well as other evidence in the record, show that the Petitioner's original Jork has added 
~cant value to the pool of knowledge in his field and opened avenues for farther I 
L__J gene therapy research. The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of 
attention he has received reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the field 
of biomedical engineering or gene therapy has regarded his research as authoritative. Here, the 
Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or 
high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how 
a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work 
add value. 3 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 
Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 17 5 6, Inc. v. The US. Att '.r Gen., 
745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
In addition, within the Petitioner's RFE response, he submitted updated information from Google 
Scholar reflecting 159 cumulative citations to his published research. The Petitioner maintains that 
his two highest cited articles in 2016 earned more than the average number of citations for articles in 
the same field, published the same year, placing them among the "top 10% most cited papers across 
the entire field for their years of publication." The Petitioner's evidence in support of this claim 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
included a printout from Incites Essential Science Indicators by Thomson Reuters, showing a table of 
"Baseline-Citation Rates" for papers published by field for 2008-2018. The line for "Molecular 
Biology and Genetics" indicated that the documented citations of the Petitioner's two highest cited 
articles in 2016, cited 26 and 19 times, respectively, do, as claimed, exceed the 7. 99 average citations 
for that year in that field. Regardless, the comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates 
does not automatically establish majorly significant contributions in the field. Once again, the issue 
for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original contributions of major significance in the 
field rather than where his citation rates rank among others in his field. Here, a more appropriate 
analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited 
articles that the field views as having been of major significance, as well as factoring in other 
corroborating evidence. The Petitioner has not demonstrated, as he asserts, that his published articles 
through citation numbers and percentiles resulted in an original contribution of major significance in 
the field. 5 
The Petitioner also submitted articles and excerpts of articles that cited to his work as evidence that he 
has made original contributions of major significance in the field. A review of the sample articles, 
though, does not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field be ond the 
authors who cited to his work. 6 For instance, the Petitioner rovided an article titled 
.__ ______________ ___, (Journal of Polymer Science, Part A: Polymer Chemistry), 
in which the authors cited to his 2016 Accounts of Chemical Research article. 7 However, the article 
does not distinguish or highlight the Petitioner's written work from the 63 other cited papers. In the 
case here, the Petitioner has not shown that his published articles through citations rise to a level of 
"major significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Further, the Petitioner states that his articles have been published in leading outlets in his field, 
including Accounts of Chemical Research, ACS Nano, Soft Matter, and Journal of Physical Chemistry 
C. This claim appears to be based on data compiled by Google Scholar and from "Impact Factor" data 
provided by the journals' own websites. However, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that publication 
of his articles in highly ranked journals establishes that the field considers his research to be an original 
contribution of major significance. Moreover, a publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor 
is reflective of the publication's overall citation rate. It does not show an author's influence or the 
impact of research on the field or that every article published in a highly ranked journal automatically 
indicates a contribution of major significance. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part, 596 F.3d at 1115. Here, the Petitioner has not established that 
publication in a popular or highly ranked journal alone demonstrates a contribution of major 
significance in the field. 
5 Id. at 8-9. (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in scholarly journals that have provoked widespread 
commentary or received notice rrom others working in the field, or entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation 
index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may be probative of the significance of the person's 
contributions to the field of endeavor). 
6 Id. at 8-9; see also Visinscaia v. Beers. 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom 
dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
7 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has reviewed papers for journals and has authored scholarly articles, the 
Petitioner has not established that his professional accomplishments have placed him among the upper 
level of his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4655136 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 19, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a[ n] provider of chronic care management products and services seeks to classify the 
Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not established that the Beneficiary satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must 
meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing the Petitioner, a provider of chronic care management products, employed the 
Beneficiary as its senior mobile applications developer. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary had not 
met any of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Beneficiary meets seven of the evidentiary criteria, as discussed below. After reviewing all 
of the evidence in the record, we find the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary satisfies 
three of the criteria, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets this criterion because several "prestigious groups in 
healthcare have ... sought to work with [the Petitioner] and want to develop applications with [the 
Beneficiary.]" It lists several healthcare providers and universities as examples of these groups, and 
the record reflects the Petitioner's business relationship with these and other entities. 
However, the criterion requires that the Beneficiary, not the Petitioner, be a member of the association 
or organization. Here the Petitioner does not submit evidence, such as bylaws or other documentation, 
demonstrating that these organizations extend membership to individuals. It further does not provide 
materials showing how the Petitioner's partnerships equate to the Beneficiary's membership in these 
entities, or how its partners' desire to develop applications with the Beneficiary constitutes 
membership or otherwise establishes that the Beneficiary holds such a membership. Even had the 
record included this information, the Petitioner does not provide evidence showing that these 
organizations require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national 
2 
or international experts in the field of applications development. For these reasons, the Petitioner has 
not demonstrated that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this 
criterion as it provided published material about it, rather than about the Beneficiary related to his 
work. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director erred by "failing to recognize that any 
publication documenting the success of [ the Petitioner] is by necessity praising the abilities and 
contributions of [the Beneficiary]."1 
Here the record contains numerous articles about the Petitioner, its products, and its business 
activities. 2 For example, the articles ' " 
~hed online at www.hughhuffaker.com3 and ~-----------------~ 
L__J' published at www.thesiliconreview.com, focus on the Petitioner and contain interviews with 
its chief executive officer. The record also includes articles about its products, such as the article 
I published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth and 1 I 
t oublished on I 
www.cobioscience.com. '-t In addition, the marketwatch.com article I I 
relates to the Petitioner's business activities. However, in order to 
establish eligibility for this criterion, the published material should be about the Beneficiary relating 
to his work in the field, not just about his employer. 5 Articles that are not about a petitioner do not 
meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. 
Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion. 
1 We note briefly the Petitioner's appellate argument that the Director erred in failing '"to acknowledge the extensive 
documentation of the circulation of online articles submitted in support of the petition." While the record includes online 
circulation statistics for most but not all. of the publications' websites, the Petitioner does not provide comparative online 
statistics establishing that they are high relative to others, or otherwise demonstrating that they rise to the level of major 
media. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions: Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that evidence of published material about the 
alien in major media should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation 
statistics.). 
2 While we discuss a sampling of the articles here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
3 The Petitioner does not provide evidence regarding www.hughhuffaker.com, such as online circulation statistics, or other 
materials, which may establish that its circulation is high relative to others, or otherwise demonstrating that it qualifies as 
a major medium. See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005. l, supra, at 7. 
4 The Petitioner does not provide additional information about J_J,1/R mHealth and uHealth or about cobioscience.com 
which may establish that either is a professional publication or major trade publication or a major media publication. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary meets this criterion as he "has served on several panels 
judging new technological innovations and the application developments associated with different 
telehealth products." However, the Petitioner does not submit evidence corroborating this assertion, 
such as correspondence confirming the Beneficiary's participation as a judge, materials identifying 
him in such a role, or other relevant documentation. The Petitioner therefore has not established that 
the Beneficiary participated, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the 
field of application development as required. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserts that as the Beneficiary's work was displayed at numerous conventions and 
conferences, he meets this criterion. The record reflects that the Petitioner has artici ated in 
numerous conferences and conventions includin the s 15th 
Annual Pow Wow and the.__ ___________ __, Investor Conference. However, the 
Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as information on displays, conference materials, or other 
relevant documentation, showing that the Beneficiary displayed his work at these events. 
Moreover, the evidence in the record reflects that these conferences were primarily commercial in 
nature. For example, an article about the Pow Wow states that it is "designed to provide a 
'------------~ update to community primary care providers sur eons s ecialists as 
well as medical oncologists & radiologists." A press release about.__~ __________ .,.. 
Investor Conference notes that its focus is on "opportunities in the areas of.__ _________ _, 
health." However, this criterion requires evidence that the Beneficiary's 
.__w_o_r_k_b_e_d-is_p_l-ay_e_d_a_t_a_rt_i__,stic exhibitions or showcases. 6 For these reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director, in determining that the Beneficiary did not meet this criterion, noted "there is no 
supporting financial documentation ... demonstrating the beneficiary's actual earnings for any period 
of time." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that it provided financial documentation in the form of the 
Beneficiary's paystubs both with its initial submission and in response to the Director's September 
2018 request for evidence (RFE) that "demonstrate that [the Beneficiary] earns $122,000 compared to 
other Mobile Application Developers who earn an average of $55,000 to $60,000 annually." 
Upon review of the record, we note that while both the brief submitted with the initial petition and 
with the RFE list paystubs as part of the included documentation, this financial documentation is not 
contained therein. Absent verifiable evidence of his earnings, the Petitioner has not established the 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
4 
amount of the salary commanded by the Beneficiary. We note farther that even had the record 
demonstrated the Beneficiary's salary or other remuneration, it lacks evidence, such as geographical 
or position-appropriate compensation surveys, 7 establishing that his salary is high relative to other 
mobile application developers, as required. The Petitioner, therefore, has not shown that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets the five 
criteria relating to membership, published material, judging, artistic display, and salary. Although on 
appeal the Petitioner also claims that the Beneficiary meets criteria related to leading or critical role 
and original contribution, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them as the Beneficiary cannot 
meet the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L­
A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 11. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23173147 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 19, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an embroiderer in the field of I embroidery, seeks classification as an 
alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner has not 
established that he meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits 
a brief and contends that he meets eight out of ten criteria and has sustained the required acclaim and 
has risen to the very top of his field. 
The Administrative Appeals Office reviews the questions in this matter de nova. See Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). The petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. See Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items, such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an embroiderer in the field of I embroidery. The Petitioner has not 
indicated that he received a major, internationally recognized award. Therefore, he must satisfy at 
least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner 
claims to have satisfied eight of these criteria, which will be discussed below. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only two criteria, relating to the scholarly articles and 
display criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six other criteria, relating to the 
lesser recognized prizes or awards, membership, published materials, judging, original contributions, 
and leading or critical role criteria. Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director's 
determination regarding the display criterion but do not agree with the Director's determination 
regarding the scholarly articles criterion. We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and 
conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on the receipt of: (1) UNESCO Award of 
Excellence for Handicraft Products in 2012; (2) The Best Artisan Award of hnitiative) in 
2012; (3) The Best Artisan of the Year Award of !(Initiative) in 2011; and (4) The People's 
Embroidery Award in 2018. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted a certificate issued as "the participant of the project -Quality Mark of 
craftmanship production in Central Asia" by UNESCO in 2012. The Petitioner also submitted 
information about UNESCO Award of Excellence in 2012 from the UNESCO website, which 
indicates that the UNESCO Award of Excellence was awarded to 188 handicraft products out of 407 
entries by artisans from Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The 
website also indicates that the A ward of Excellence program aims to ensure the continuation of 
traditional knowledge and skills and the preservation of cultural diversity in the region. 
The Petitioner submitted diplomas of 'The Best Artisan at Regional 
Initiative -2012 Contest" and "The Best Artisan the Year at Municipal Level of __ ___,(Initiative) -2011 Contest" issued to him b the President of the 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter fro Chairman of the Board of the 
Chamber of Commerce and Industry in ___ Region, which states that the criteria for selecting 
winners are the participant's (1) contribution to his or her sphere in the form of original goods and 
services, (2) participation in international exhibitions and expo, and (3) providing jobs. 
The Petitioner submitted a diploma of "The People's Embroidery 2018 
Creator" by the State Committee for Tourism Develo ment of the -The Best Embroidery 
and 
The I I Regional Headquarters of 
Petitioner also submitted a letter from I the Head of _______ in _ 
Region, which states that the People's Embroidery 2018 contest 1s open only to members of 
I I 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, contending that the awards are given for excellence in the 
field of endeavor and that they are internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. However, the evidence does not establish that these awards are given for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. The 2012 UNESCO Award of Excellence was given to 188 handicrafts out of 407 
entries to ensure the continuation of traditional knowledge and skills and the preservation of cultural 
diversity in the region. In addition, the record does not contain national or international media 
coverage or other sufficient evidence demonstrating that the UNESCO award is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field of endeavor. With respect to the I award, participants 
must show that they contributed original goods and services, that they participated in international 
exhibitions and exports, and that they provided jobs. This selection criteria do not establish that the I laward is given to recognize excellence in the field of endeavor. The People's Embroidery 
2018 contest was open only to members of _______ Since this award is limited to 
members of the association and participants of the contest in 2018, the record does not reflect that this 
People's Embroidery award is nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 
Submitting evidence of the Petitioner's receipt of awards is insufficient to meet the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) without documentary evidence reflecting that the prize or 
award is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. Accordingly, 
the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based upon his membershi in the I of Artisans, Craftsmen, and Folk Artists of the The record 
includes a membership certificate and letters fro__ m the Head of 
in __ Region. The letters state that the association is open only to "highly skilled masters who 
are among the few on top of their fields and requires outstanding achievements of its members, as 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the respective field of folk art." The 
letters provide that the Petitioner's membership was recommended by I I and 
________ The record contains resumes forl and 
While the letters froml I contain language that mirrors the regulation, neither the author 
nor the Petitioner has pointed to sufficient evidence in the record that supports the claim that the 
organization requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts. Specifically, the record lacks the entity's constitution, bylaws, or other official 
documents, detailing its membership selection process and criteria. Without additional evidence that 
accurately and credibly explains the association's membership requirements or selection process, 
conclusory statements are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. See 17 5 6, 
Inc. v. United States Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements). On appeal, instead of submitting additional evidence to corroborate 
his claims, the Petitioner submits a brief: repeating that the association requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
Moreover, although the record includes resumes for I I and I I the 
individuals whoJ asserts, recommended the Petitioner for membership in thel I I I the documentation is insufficient to show that they qualify as national or international 
experts in the field. I I resume indicates he was the head of two art museums and was a 
professor of museology and art history inl I and that his "scholarly articles and brochures" 
include two works on I embroidery. I I resume indicates she teaches tour 
guides inl land is a member of the organizing committee of thel I Festival. The 
resumes are not corroborated and insufficient to confirm that the individuals are qualifying experts in 
the field. Similarly, although! !claims thatl I and I I are 
nationally recognized experts, he has not explained the basis of his knowledge or offered sufficient 
evidence in support of his statement. Finally, even assuming the submitted evidence demonstrated 
that I I andl I are experts in the field, comparing them to other members of 
the association is insufficient to meet this criterion. While the individual members of the association 
may be highly qualified, the record does not demonstrate that membership inl I requires 
outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
4 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner submitted an article he wrote about his journey as al !embroiderer, which was 
published in the magazine Tasvir. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
requires that the published material be "about" the Petitioner relating to his work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Articles authored by the Petitioner are not articles about the Petitioner relating 
to his work. The Petitioner also submitted an article about I I embroidery in America and the 
Petitioner as al I embroiderer residing in the United States, which was published in the 
newspaper Our Home Minnesota. The Petitioner also submitted an article about 2018 
Embroidery Competition in I which was published in the magazine Zar Tasvir Plus. This 
article in Zar Tasvir Plus briefly mentions the Petitioner, a young embroiderer from I as the 
first-place winner at the competition. Although the Petitioner is mentioned in the article, this article 
is not about the Petitioner relating to his work, but about the competition. 
The Petitioner submitted one published article about himself as al I embroiderer relating to his 
work but did not demonstrate that Our Home Minnesota as well as any of the other publications, Tasvir 
and Zar Tasvir Plus, are major media. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, contending that the 
submitted articles were published in major media inl I The record contains information 
about magazine Tasvir from thel I website, which indicates that the circulation of the magazine 
is 40,000 copies. The record also contains a letter from the Chief Editor of the newspaper Our Home 
Minnesota, which states that the circulation of the newspaper is 4,000 printed numbers. The Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that based on the circulation data, these publications qualify as major media. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of spec[fication for which class[fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) for the reasons outlined below. 
5 
The record includes a letter from th the Head of _______ in ___ 
Region, which states that the association thanks the member of the association, the Petitioner, for 
participating at its 2011 I !exhibition fair. It notes that the Petitioner has participated in 
national and international exhibitions many times with his artistic products. However, the letter does 
not assert or establish that the Petitioner participated as "a judge" of the work of others in the field. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I the Head of ________ in 
I !Region, which states that the association thanks the Petitioner for "his help in determining 
craftsmen, artisans and painters, who were invited" to its 2014 ______ exhibition. This 
letter does not state in what manner the Petitioner provided help in determining what artists were 
invited to the exhibition. This letter does not establish that the Petitioner participated as "a judge" of 
the work of others in the field. The phrase "a judge" implies a formal designation in a judging capacity, 
either on a panel or individually as specified at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). There is no evidence 
demonstrating that the Petitioner actually judged the artwork and made final selections for the exhibition, 
rather than, for example, merely assisting with general administrative functions of the exhibition. 
Moreover, there is no documentary evidence showing the specific exhibitions judged by the Petitioner, 
the dates of his participation, and the names of the artists whose work he specifically selected. Merely 
submitting a statement asserting that the Petitioner judged the work of others without evidence 
showing who he judged and their field of specialization is insufficient to establish eligibility for this 
criterion. On appeal, instead of submitting contemporaneous documentary evidence of the Petitioner's 
participation as a judge for the 2014 I I exhibition sponsored by I the 
Petitioner submits a brief: repeating that the Petitioner served as a judge of the work of others at major 
exhibitions and showcases. There is no documentary evidence showing the Petitioner's specific 
assessments and the names of the artists whose work he evaluated. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner submitted letters froml I a K-12 art teacher, and _______ 
a fine artist and gallery coordinator. I and I I state that they are familiar with the 
Petitioner's work as an "accomplished! I embroiderer" and that the Petitioner has 
"made [a] contribution of major significance to this field by virtue of his mastery of 
embroidery techniques and by adaptation of these techniques to contemporary materials and tastes." 
In addition, they claim that the Petitioner's "use of the I technique as well as his ability to 
combine various! I styles in a single piece constitute a contribution of major significance in 
the field ofl I embroidery." I I also states that the Petitioner displayed his 
artwork at different art fairs in Minnesota and in other states. 
6 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I a K-12 art teacher, which states that the 
Petitioner's contributions "to the art of embroidery, decorative art, and cultural traditions of 
are of major importance as they have and will continue to influence the work of other 
artists." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, contending that expert testimonials from leading experts in 
the Petitioner's field of endeavor demonstrate that the Petitioner's work is original and that he has 
made contributions of major significance to his field of endeavor. To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field ofl I embroidery. Major significance in the field may 
be shown through evidence that his original methods or processes have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
The evidence is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. While the 
reference letters discuss the Petitioner's work, noting in general that it is well-regarded and 
appreciated, they do not explain how his work has impacted the field in a major or significant way, 
consistent with a finding of "contributions of major significance." For example, the record does not 
demonstrate that the Petitioner's techniques have been widely used by others in the field. The 
documents in the record primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of how his contributions rise to a level consistent with major significance. 
Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have 
already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Moreover, we need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc., 745 F. Supp. at 17. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding, however, does not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary 
evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
for the reasons outlined below. 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based upon his articles about the history and 
importance of embroidery in I which was published in majorl I media, and a book 
titled published inl I The record includes copies of several pages of the book 
which lists the Petitioner as "developer." According to the letter froml I 
the Head of Publishing House, the book L I was published by the Petitioner, 
published in 350 copies, and distributed among regional libraries. The record also includes evidence 
that the Petitioner has authored three articles that were published in the newspaper! I 
and the magazine Education and Upbringing and presented at the 2014 Scientific-Practical 
International Conference of the Academy of Sciences of the 
7 
While the Petitioner might have authored written work, he has not shown that his pieces qualify as 
"scholarly articles," as required under the criterion. As defined in the academic arena, scholarly 
articles report on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse, and often have 
footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as 
illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 1 For other fields, scholarly articles are written 
for learned persons in that field. 2 "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship," and learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a 
field. 3 Here, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the bookl and three articles, which 
are each between one and three pages in length, qualify as scholarly. There is no documentary 
evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's works were peer-reviewed, contain any references to 
sources, or were otherwise considered scholarly. Moreover, the record lacks evidence that other 
scholars have taken notice of the Petitioner's work. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that his work has been published in qualifying 
publications. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the Chief Editor ofl I stating that 
the circulation of lis 500 printed copies. The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the 
Chief Editor of Education and Upbringing, stating that the magazine Education and Upbringing is 
published in 4,000 copies monthly. Finally, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Head of the 
Academy of Sciences, stating that its annual scientific international conference provides more than 
100 scientific articles in different areas and that all articles of the conference were published in one 
collection, with a circulation of 1,000 printed copies. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that based 
on the circulation data, these publications qualify as major media. In addition, he has not presented 
adequate documentation confirming they constitute either professional or major trade publications. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility for this criterion. A review of the 
record of proceeding reflects that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence 
establishing that he meets the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Accordingly, the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. We agree 
with the Director's determination. A review of the record of proceeding does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing that he meets the plain language of 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) for the reasons outlined below. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/sites/ default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-140-evidence-pm-6002-005-1.pdf. 
2 Id. 
3 Id. 
8 
The Petitioner claims that he has performed as an expert embroiderer a leading or critical role for 
Gymnastics, an artistic and rhythmic gymnastics training facility in Minnesota. The Petitioner 
submitted a letter froml lthe founder and Executive Director of Gymnastics, which 
states that the training facility needs talented masters who can create beautiful leotards for the girls on 
its artistic and rhythmic travel teams and that she is interested in engaging the Petitioner as a silk 
embroider based on his expertise in the field of traditional! I embroidery. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, repeating that Gymnastics has a distinguished 
reputation and that I hired the Petitioner to complete embroideries on the leotards. However, 
the letter froml I does not explain how the Petitioner's role as an embroiderer for the leotards 
was leading or critical to Gymnastics as a whole. The Petitioner did not provide an organizational 
chart or other similar evidence to establish how his role fits within the overall hierarchy of the 
organization. The letter does not specify how the Petitioner as an embroiderer for the leotards 
contributed to the organization in a way that is significant to the organization's outcome as a 
gymnastics training facility or what role he played in the organization's activities as a gymnastics 
training facility. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not submit any independent, objective evidence demonstrating thatD 
Gymnastics has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner did not submit, for example, documentary 
evidence distinguishing Gymnastics from other artistic and rhythmic gymnastics training 
facilities, so as to establish that it has a distinguished reputation as marked by eminence, distinction, 
or excellence. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
9 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC 19, 2023 In Re: 29045946 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a craftsperson, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by submitting evidence to 
satisfy at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before 
us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has exhibited her artwork in Uzbekistan, Russia, and Spain. Because she has not 
indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must 
satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the 
petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to all of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and concluded she satisfied only one criterion. 
Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met her burden to demonstrate display under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). As indicated above, the Petitioner has exhibited her work at artistic 
exhibitions and showcases. Accordingly, we concur with the Director's finding for the display 
criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also provided evidence of her membership in associations 
sufficient to meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 1 For the reasons discussed below, we find 
that the documentation does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at 
least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on membership with the Artists Trade 
Union of Russia (ATUR) and the Eurasian Art Union (EAU) (also referred to in the record as the 
Professional Union of Artists of Russia). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner does not dispute the Director's finding that she had not established eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (iv). (v), (vi), (viii), (ix) or (x). Therefore, we consider these issues to be abandoned. See Matter of 
R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an 
adverse decision. that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Atty. Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005). 
citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 
WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding plaintiffs claims abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal 
to the AAO). 
2 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.2 The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence demonstrating that 
outstanding achievements are required for membership in those organizations, or that they rely on 
recognized national or international experts to determine which individuals qualify for membership. 
Pertaining to A TUR, within her initial submission, the Petitioner provided her A TUR membership 
card and membership certificate, both dated July 1, 2021. She also submitted two certificates dated 
July 24, 2021, from the chairman of ATUR, certifying, respectively, that ATUR included her in the 
United Register of the Professional Artists and its Rating Centre gave her "the Rating category 6-B ( a 
professional artist)." 
Within her response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted the ATUR statute, 
which indicates: 
3.1. Professional painters, graphic artists, sculptors, masters of decorative and applied 
arts, photo artists, designers, architects, art historians, gallery and museum workers, 
journalists, other persons associated with professional interests in the field of culture 
and art, who have reached the age of 18, can be members of the Trade Union, sharing 
the goals of the Trade Union, recognizing the charter of the Trade Union and taking a 
personal part in the work of the Trade Union. 
3.2. Membership in the Trade Union is voluntary. Individuals are accepted as members 
of the Trade Union on the basis of a personal appeal in writing. 
It is evident that inclusion in the United Register of the Professional Artists and receipt of the rating 
category 6-B (professional artist) are not a condition for membership; the Petitioner obtained them 
after her ATUR membership occurred. Absent evidence to the contrary, it appears that membership 
in the organization is held by artists who have reached the age of 18 and who have submitted a written 
application. Thus, the documentation submitted does not show that A TUR requires outstanding 
achievements of those accepted for admission, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the field. 
Regarding EAU, the Petitioner initially provided her membership card dated December 21, 2021. 
However, an additional form related to the Petitioner's EAU membership indicates her "date of entry" 
to be December 21, 2020. The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record with 
independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-
92 (BIA 1988). In addition, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As the Petitioner filed her petition in November 2021, and as she has not 
submitted verifiable and consistent evidence ofthe date her membership in EAU occurred, she did not 
demonstrate sufficiently that her membership with EAU occurred prior to or at the time of her initial 
filing. 
2 See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (providing guidance for the 
evaluation of evidence submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)). 
3 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner also submitted the statute of the EAU, which states as 
follows: 
4.1. The following persons can be members of the Organization: Citizens of the 
Russian Federation, foreign citizens and stateless persons legally staying in the Russian 
Federation who have reached the age of 18, except in cases established by international 
treaties of the Russian Federation or federal laws and being professional and amateur 
artists, designers, photographers, art historians, artisans who have created original 
works of independent creative significance, as well as artists and individuals who have 
made a significant contribution to culture and art, who have widely recognized 
outstanding achievements and who promote folk arts, acknowledging and 
implementing this Statue. 
4.2. Admission to membership is performed by the EAU' s Presidium on the basis of a 
personal written application of the candidate with the presentation of his creative 
works, recommendations from three members of the EAU, the decision of the 
governing body of the creative section and other documents specified in the 
"Regulations on the Procedure for Admission and Exclusion from the EAU." 
4.3. Decisions of admission to EAU's membership are taken by a simple majority of 
votes of the members of the EAU's Presidium participating in the meeting. 
The EAU statute does not define the terms "works ofindependent creative significance" or "significant 
contribution to culture and art." Although the EAU statute uses the regulatory term "outstanding 
achievements," it does not contain detailed, specific information defining what constitutes outstanding 
achievements. Reviewed in its totality, the evidence does not demonstrate that membership in EAU 
requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts in the 
Petitioner's field or discipline. First, the Petitioner has not shown that EAU's requirement that 
prospective members provide evidence of "works of independent creative significance" or 
"significant contribution to culture and art" is tantamount to imposing an "outstanding achievement" 
requirement for membership. The statute does not indicate which factors are considered in 
establishing outstanding achievement in the membership process, or otherwise indicate the process by 
which prospective members are evaluated. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the 
outstanding achievements for membership. 3 As indicated above, the EAU statute reflects the 
organization's Presidium votes for membership. The Petitioner did not provide information about the 
Presidium members showing that they qualify as recognized national or international experts. 4 
3 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
4 Fmther, we note that the record contains a second '·Reply to a Request for Additional Evidence," dated after the Director's 
denial decision, in which the Petitioner provided additional materials, including under this criterion information regarding 
EAU members; EAU meeting minutes concerning membership, the board of trustees, and regional representative offices; 
information from the ATUR website on how to become a member; and information about the reference book United Art 
Rating describing the artist rating system. The Director acknowledged but did not consider these materials as they were 
received after the issuance of denial decision. As the Petitioner was put on notice and given a reasonable opportunity to 
4 
For these reasons, we agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner did not establish that she 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm 'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of her work is indicative ofthe required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(I )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
provide this evidence we will not consider it for the first time on appeal. See 8 C.F.R. ~ 103.2(6)(11) (requiring all 
requested evidence be submitted together at one time); Matter ofSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing 
that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the 
record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that "we will adjudicate 
the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec 533 (BIA 
1988). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4699024 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 20, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a[ n] film director and producer , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a television and film director and producer holding a Master of Science degree in 
cinematography and TV production from thel !University of Culture and Arts. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met none of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets the following 
evidentiary criteria: awards at § 204.5(h)(3)(i); original contribution at § 204.5(h)(3)(v); scholarly 
articles at § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); and leading or critical role at § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). After reviewing all of 
the evidence in the record, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner fulfills the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion throu h awards received b the televised concert I I and the movies and I I 
She also claims to meet this criterion through her receipt of the .__ ______ _.Ukraine Football 
League medal and thel I award from Ukraine for her "contribution for the liberation of Ukraine 
at the time of anti-people power." 
As it relates to I l the Petitioner provides translated screenshots from the award's 
website https://teletriumf.au, the award's criteria, translated screenshots of the program's credits from 
gordist.com, and the abovementioned letters. The screenshots from teletriumf.au confirm that in 2006 
this program received the Teletriumf award for'~-------------" and the award 
criteria establish that it is a nationally recognized award granted for excellence in the field of 
filmmaking. 
2 
In addition to being a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in the field, the 
regulation provides that the focus should be on the Petitioner's receipt of the awards or prizes.1 In the 
instant petition, however, the record indicates that an entity, as opposed to the Petitioner, received the 
award. For example, the screenshots from teletriumf.ua attribute the film award to ,j l" 
and the translated screenshots of the program credits from gordist.com indicate that the production is 
copyrighted by Alternatively, in his letter of recommendation! I 
director of the '-------,----------,-----'' states, '~received this prestigious 
national award for the project 2006 .... " Discrepancies in this documentation 
notwithstanding, the record indicates that eithe ~----~orD received the award. 
However, an individual may also be considered to be a recipient of an award if they are integral to a 
group's winning of that award. The tr n 1 r r m r <lits from gordist.com show that the 
Petitioner was the "2nd TV director" for andl l's correspondence 
notes that the film was "directed by~----~" However, the record lacks information about the 
role of a 2nd TV director that might demonstrate how this role is integral to the success of a film or 
television production. I l's correspondence similarly lacks specific examples of how the 
Petitioner's work was integral tol I receipt of this award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not 
established that she was a recipient of the Teletriumf award forl I 
On appeal, the Petitioner also asserts that the Director failed to account for awards received by the 
films I f andD However, the record lacks evidence sufficient to establish that these 
films received awards or prizes that are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of film or television direction. With regard to I l the record contains printouts from 
IMDb.com, journeyman.tv, myzff.com, www.pelicam.ro, and Microsoft.com as documentation that 
she meets this criterion. The printouts fromjourneyman.tv, myzff.com, and Microsoft.com contain a 
synopsis of the movie and identify the producer, but do not indicate that it received any awards. 
The record also includes letters of recommendation froml I chief executive officer of 
andl I movie director and producer noting that it "received 
~s_p_e-c1-.a-l-jury--p-ri_z_e_f_o_r~the "Best International Feature" at the ~ j film festival in 2015." 
However, the record lacks documentary evidence substantiating ~----~s and I Is 
assertions, such as a copy of the award, media reports, or other relevant materials, nor does it establish 
that the special jury prize for this festival is internationally or nationally recognized for excellence in 
the field, as required. In addition, the information from IMDB.com indicates thatl I 
received nominations at several festivals, but received no awards or prizes at these events. 
As it relates to I I the Petitioner provides a screenshot from Amazon and a Wikipedia entry 
containing a synopsis of the film with information about its director and an article from https://wff.pl 
mentioning the film as a nominee for "the main award -.__ ______ ~l~irector A ward 
and Special Jury award." However, the record lacks evidence establishing thaL____}eceived one of 
these awards at the I l or establishing that the film received prizes or awards at other 
festivals. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
Finally, regarding the Petitioner's receipt of awards from the I t Ukraine Football 
League, and from the l I for her "contribution for the liberation of Ukraine at the 
time of anti-people power," the record contains a photocopy and translation of each. However, the 
record lacks evidence that these awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in 
the field of film production, as required. 
For the abovementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner must establish that not 
only has she made original contributions but that she has been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner argues that her development of "the innovative and unique lighting concept" for a 
television production that "created a visual effect of a performer's disappearance from one part of the 
stage during the performance and his/her appearance at another part" demonstrates that she meets this 
criterion. As evidence, she refers to the aforementioned correspondence from and I I wherein they both stated, "[the Petitioner's] idea of the 1 I style was so unique 
that many directors began to use it in their productions." However, the record lacks evidence 
corroborating these assertions, such as letters from television or movie directors who have employed 
this technique, or other materials demonstratin that the technique was originated by the Petitioner 
and has been widely implemented. Similarly, writes that the Petitioner used "an 
overhead camera which was positioned on rails" in her work o~ ________ .,,..., and that this and 
other "innovations have been adopted by others in their work," but this is also not supported by 
documentary or testimonial evidence. Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack 
specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 2 
For this reason, the documentation in the record is not sufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the _field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The record reflects that the Petitioner published a 2018 article titled '..._ _________ __. I I' in Issue 38 of the journal Herald of KNUKiM, 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
4 
Series of Art History, a publication of the I I University of Culture and Arts. 3 The 
Petitioner also provides evidence demonstrating she published a peer-reviewed book titled 'I I 
' This is sufficient to show that she meets this ~--------------------~ criterion, and we will withdraw the Director's determination to the contrary. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion through her "leading and critical" role forD and 
references a letter froml I provided in response to the Director's September 2018 request 
for evidence in support of her claim. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a 
petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role 
is or was, in fact, leading. 4 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner 
has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 5 
In his correspondence.I I argues that the Petitioner's leading role is "confirmed by [the 
Petitioner] moving into a new prestigious role of the Director/Producer, the highest position in the 
world of film and media production." However, the record lacks evidence, such as an organizational 
structure fore=] which might establish the leading nature of her role withinO including how her 
position relates, for instance, to other directors and to executives such asl I 
As it relates to her critical role for the organization,~----~ asserts, "clear evidence of [the 
Petitioner's] leading and critical role in our company is her leadership in our most complex and 
prestigious projects, all of which resulted in the highest rating of our broadcasts." However, this letter 
does not offer sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record contain adequate corroborating 
evidence, regarding the impact of her work on television and movie ratings and other indicia of 
success, or otherwise demonstrate how her role as a director has had been of significant importance to 
the outcome of D's activities. 
~----~I also claims that 'D completely owed receiving of "Teletriumf'' Award ... to [the 
Petitioner's] work, her ingenuity, her talent, and extraordinary ability in the filmmaking industry" and 
that this "confirms [ the Petitioner's] leading and/ or critical role within c=]." However, his letter 
does not off er sufficiently detailed information, nor does the record contain adequate corroborating 
evidence to support these assertions, as we discuss above. Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion. 
3 The Petitioner provides an English language abstract of this a1iicle describing its research methodology and conclusions, 
as well as a translation of the journal's cover page and table of contents. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 20, 2023 In Re: 28802801 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business specialist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
In the appeal brief: the Petitioner asserts that she submitted sufficient evidence to establish her 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability and that the Director erred in the review of the 
information sent. 1 Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in 
this case because the Director's decision is insufficient for review. 
With the initial petition, the Petitioner claimed and submitted evidence to satisfy the criteria listed 
below: 
• Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); 
• Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii); and 
• Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed and submitted 
evidence in support of the following additional criteria: 
• Evidence of the individual's original business-related contributions of major significance in 
the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); and 
• Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
1 The Petitioner also claims for the first time that she meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) regarding authorship 
of scholarly articles in the field. We note the Director's RFE advised her of what type of evidence she could submit in 
support of this criterion. The Petitioner did not address this criterion when responding to the RFE. Where a petitioner has 
been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency. we will 
not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
2 
The Director's decision, however, only addressed the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and stated 
that "[t]he petitioner did not submit evidence for" the remaining criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
-(x). An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision 
did not adequately address the evidence submitted with the petition or in response to the RFE, we will 
remand the matter. 
The Director should consider all the evidence submitted in support of the claimed criteria and 
specifically address its deficiencies and inconsistencies. For example, regarding the membership 
criterion, the December 2022 letter from the president of the Chamber of Shopping Centers of Chile 
"certif1 ies] the participation of the Petitioner as an integral part ofthe Chamber of Shopping Centers 
through the company ,________ ___, ( emphasis added). However, the April 2023 letter, 
submitted on appeal, "certi ies that the Petitioner] is a member ofthe Chilean Chamber of Shopping 
Centers, representing~-------~ (emphasis added). According to Article One of the 
Constitutive Assembly of the Chilean Chamber of Shopping Centers A.G. of August 2008, they are a 
trade association of shopping centers. Article Five explains that there are "two categories ofmembers, 
A and B." Category A members "own or operate" at least one shopping center and supervise and 
coordinate the operation according to a set of internal uniform rules. Category B members are "linked 
to category A members and ... act or participate in the commercial activity of the Shopping Centers 
in a capacity other than that of owners or operators." Article Ten states that if a member is a legal 
entity, it "must designate their representative before the association." The Director should determine 
whether the Petitioner has established that she is a member of the trade association pursuant to Article 
Five, rather than a representative pursuant to Article Ten. It is the Petitioner's burden to resolve these 
discrepancies in the record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. 
Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Further, we note that the record does not show 
that either Category A or B membership in the trade association requires outstanding achievements as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. 
If the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements, the Director should evaluate whether the 
Petitioner has demonstrated her sustained national or international acclaim, that she is one ofthe small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 20, 2024 In Re: 33941201 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a chief executive of an aquaculture company in a foreign country who seeks 
classification as an alien ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the record did not establish that the Petitioner had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-step analysis. In the first 
step, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field 
through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Ifthat petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that 
meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as 
awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then move to the second step to 
consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 
1121 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-step review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner worked in the information technology field for several decades then in approximately 
2019 he applied much of that knowledge to the aquaculture industry, involving the farming of fish, 
shellfish, plants, and other organisms in water. 
A. The Beneficiary's Field ofExpertise 
In Part 6 of the petition, the Petitioner listed the Beneficiary's job title for the proposed employment 
as chief executive and provided the Department ofLabor's standard occupational classificational code 
for the occupation by that same title. In the material accompanying his initial petition filing, the 
Petitioner discussed his recent achievements as a chief executive for a company in the aquaculture 
industry in a foreign country and he indicated that upon approval of this petition, he will continue in 
that industry and bring the aquaculture internet of things technologies to the United States where he 
will start a new company. 
The statute requires those filing for this immigrant classification to show they have extraordinary 
ability by demonstrating their "achievements have been recognized in the field'' and that they seek "to 
enter the United States to continue to work in the area of extraordinary ability." Section 
203(b)(1 )(A)(i)-(ii). The statute uses these terms synonymously. Stemming from that statutory 
concept, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) defines extraordinary ability as "a level of expertise 
indicating that the individual is one of that smal 1 percentage who have risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires that a foreign national's "achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise" through either a one-time achievement or through a sufficient 
number of criteria listed thereafter. And 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S) mandates the foreign national "is 
coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise." (Emphasis added in each 
citation). 
Therefore, congress created, and the agency promulgated, this immigrant classification providing an 
overarching structure requiring that one's achievements have been recognized in the same field of 
expertise that the individual intends to work in as a permanent resident in the United States. Federal 
2 
courts agree with the prospect-and favorably cite to the USCTS Policy Manual-that where one's 
historical achievements rely on different skillsets than the area of expertise they intended to engage in 
within the United States, that USCIS acts within its authority to decide the historical accolades do not 
satisfy the regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). See Mussarova v. Garland, 562 
F. Supp. 3d 837, 843--44 (C.D. Cal. 2022) (citing Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 
2002)); see also Integrity Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. United States Citizenship 
& Immigr. Servs., 131 F. Supp. 3d 721, 729-31 (S.D. Ohio 2015) (finding it appropriate to disregard 
distant claims and evidence as a competitor under the regulatory criteria when the foreign national is 
applying as a coach or instructor). 
These requirements relate to this case in the following way. The Petitioner had a career and 
accumulated achievements outside of the aquaculture industry and only joined that field in the late 
twenty-teen years. When he filed the petition, the Petitioner indicated he "is one of the few best chief 
executives," and that he "will continue working in the aquaculture industry, bringing IoT [internet of 
things] technologies that have been proven successful to the United States." As a result, the Petitioner 
must satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) through his accomplishments in the aquaculture 
industry, as that is his field of endeavor in which he intends to engage in the United States. Also, were 
he to satisfy at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), USCIS would limit their 
totality of the evidence analysis to his claims and evidence in the field of aquaculture, as well as any 
claims he presents as comparable evidence under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
We observe the USCTS Policy Manual provides the following relating to the final merits 
determination: 
At this step, officers consider any potentially relevant evidence in the record, even if 
such evidence does not fit one of the above regulatory criteria or was not presented as 
comparable evidence. The officers consider all evidence in the totality. Some evidence 
may weigh more favorably on its own, while other evidence is more persuasive when 
viewed with other evidence. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)( 1 ), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. But we further 
observe that the statute and the regulation operate under the rubric that a foreign national must 
demonstrate their achievements have been recognized in the same field of expertise that the individual 
intends to work in as a permanent resident in the United States. As a result, the USCTS Policy Manual's 
language comes into play in which it states, "officers consider any potentially relevant evidence in the 
record." The phrase "any potentially relevant evidence" here refers only to the Petitioner's area of 
extraordinary ability or area of expertise rubric, as the policy does not expressly depart from the 
statutory and regulatory requirements that the foreign national is coming to the United States to 
continue to work in those areas. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criteria relating to published material, but 
3 
that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with original contributions, authorship of scholarly 
articles, or performing in a leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets 
the evidentiary criteria the Director declined to grant. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, 
we agree with the Director's overall determination that the petition does not warrant an approval. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. ?reap, 586 U.S. 392, 415 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
As we noted above, the Petitioner is applying to continue working in the field of aquaculture, and his 
claimed contributions must fall under that umbrella. We therefore will not factor in his claimed 
contributions from his career prior to joining the aquaculture field in the areas ofvirtual and augmented 
reality technology. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this 
criterion. Making that determination, the Director acknowledged the originality of the Petitioner's 
contributions through his research, but incorrectly permitted his contributions from fields outside of 
his claimed area of extraordinary ability or expertise in which he will continue to work in the United 
States. Ultimately, the Director recognized the Petitioner's patents and claims relating to inventions 
and intellectual property, but decided the record lacked adequate documentation to corroborate his 
claims. 
I Ifounded The Petitioner is now the chief executive 
of that company and it is where his efforts in aquaculture have been recognized. MrOstated in his 
letter that in China, the aquaculture industry's adoption of technology was at a bare minimum but 
when he brought the Petitioner into the company, the Petitioner's efforts changed that over the 
preceding years. Other letters within the record reflect a similar view of the Petitioner's effect in this 
field in China. As the Petitioner's patents relating to the aquaculture industry in his home country 
reflect, his contributions are original as it relates to that country. But the Petitioner did not address 
that other very similar devices and methods already existed in other countries when he joined I I 
I I 
The regulation and the USCIS Policy Manual require the Petitioner's contributions to impact the 
broader field and not simply the industry within his home country. We note scholarly work that 
preceded the Petitioner's efforts by several years call into question the originality of his contributions 
to the broader aquaculture field. For instance, two published works at a 201 7 conference were 
presented relating to automating water quality in a controlled aquaculture environment similar to some 
4 
of the Petitioner's advancements in Chinese aquaculture. 1 And in 2013 Ifounded 
a smart feeding technology that changed the way aquaculture farmers feed their fisheries 
through a similar internet of things feeding solution as the Petitioner describes as his contribution to 
the aquaculture field. 
The evidence the Petitioner presented is not adequate to show his contributions to the aquaculture field 
are both original and of major significance, especially considering much of his claimed achievements 
already existed outside of his home country. The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion's 
requirements. 
Evidence ofthe alien's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The evidence the Petitioner provided under this criterion was a 1998 article he published about how 
different materials behave under stress, especially when cracks are present in the material. He also 
provided a 2006 article he published in a computer graphics periodical relating to using an algorithm 
to extract symbols from topographical maps to simplify the digital scanning process. 
We review this criterion under the rubric that the Petitioner's achievements under the regulatory 
criteria must be in his field of aquaculture. Applying that to the authorship of scholarly articles at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner's articles themselves must have been published in the same 
field ofendeavor in which he intends to continue working in the United States. Although the Petitioner 
has a background in circuitry and systems engineering, as we note above, he is applying within this 
petition as a chief executive who intends to start a company in the United States that is similar to his 
company in another country. His foreign company is an internet of things organization specializing 
in the aquaculture market. The Petitioner has not established that an article in the field of structural 
or materials science, nor one related to geospatial information science and digital image processing 
has a sufficient nexus to: (1) his field or area of extraordinary ability (statutory terms); or (2) his field 
of endeavor, field of expertise, or area of expertise (regulatory terms). 
As a result, the Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion's requirements relying on evidence from a 
different field from the one he intends to engage as a lawful permanent resident in the United States. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner satisfies the published material criterion, he does not meet 
the criteria regarding authorship of scholarly articles or original contributions of major significance. 
While he argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to leading or 
critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), it is unnecessary that we make a decision on this additional 
ground because he cannot numerically meet the required number of at least three criteria. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve the remaining issues. Patel v. Garland, 596 U.S. 328,332 (2022) (citing INS 
1 A. D. M. Africa, J. C. C. A. Aguilar, C. M. S. Lim, P.A. A. Pacheco and S. E. C. Rodrin, Automated aquaculture system 
that regulates Ph, temperature and ammonia, 2017IEEE 9th International Conference on Humanoid. Nanotechnology. 
Information Technology. Communication and Control. Environment and Management (HNICEM), Manila, Philippines, 
2017, pp. 1-6; M. C. De Belen and F. R. G. Cruz, "Water quality parameter correlation in a controlled aquaculture 
environment," 2017IEEE 9th International Conference on Humanoid, Nanotechnology. Information Technology. 
Communication and Control, Environment and Management (HNICEM), Manila, Philippines, 2017, pp. 1--4. 
5 
v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are not required to make "purely advisory 
findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); see also Matter ofLarios-Gutierrez 
De Pablo & Pablo-Larios, 28 I&N Dec. 868, 877 n.8 (BIA 2024) (declining to reach alternative issues 
on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered an independent and 
alternative basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 20, 2024 In Re: 34693726 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a dancer and dance instructor who seeks first preference immigrant classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Namely, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the six criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii)-(v), (vii), and (viii). The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets four of the ten criteria. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal because the Petitioner did not establish that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iv), which pertain to receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards and participation as a judge of the work of others, respectfully. 
As noted above, the Petitioner also claims that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and 
(vii), which relate to published material about the Petitioner in major trade journals or major media 
and the display of the Petitioner's work in artistic exhibitions, respectively. However, the Petitioner 
1 The Petitioner did not, either at the time of filing or subsequently , in response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE), include the criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) and (viii) as part of his eligibility claim. In the denial, 
however, the Director addressed these criteria, along with the four that the Petitioner specifically listed in support of his 
claim as an individual of extraordinary ability. Regardless , because the Petitioner does not address these two criteria on 
appeal, we need not consider them in detennining his eligibility. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter 
ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
would not establish that he met three out of ten criteria even if he established that he met both of these 
criteria. As such, we need not address either criterion, nor do we need to provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a 
two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number 
of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). Accordingly, we will reserve 
these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required 
to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision). 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115; see also Visinscaia v. 
Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 
2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional ballroom dancer and instructor who claims to be "highly respected and 
well-known" within the ballroom dance community. He is currently using his skills as a dancer to 
provide professional services as a dance instructor. 2 The Petitioner does not claim or submit evidence 
to show that he received a major, internationally recognized award. He must therefore provide 
evidence showing that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets the elements of four of 
these criteria, which are summarized below: 
2 The Petitioner maintains that he is eligible for this classification based on his extraordinary ability as a dancer and dance 
instructor. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(A)(2), https://www.uscis.gov /policy-manual. 
2 
• (i), Recipient of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
1. Evidence of Lesser Nationally or Internationally Recognized Awards 
First, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field 
of endeavor. 
In the denial, the Director recognized that the Petitioner was a recipient of awards in the United States 
and Ukraine, noting that some of the awards were related to his employer, _______ 
However, the Director noted that recognition of some of these awards was in the form of local 
newspaper and television coverage, thereby indicating that the Petitioner's awards were regional, 
local, or employer-based and were not nationally or internationally recognized. The Director also 
declined to consider awards the Petitioner earned in the Ukraine in youth or junior competitions, 
explaining that the Petitioner earned these awards as an amateur and not as a professional dancer. 
We disagree with the Director's blanket dismissal of evidence based solely on the limitation that 
certain awards were earned at the youth or junior level. While national or international recognition is 
most often associated with awards given at the highest level in a given field, the Petitioner is not 
required to show that his awards were open to all members of his field to satisfy this element of the 
criterion. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. That said 
however, neither on appeal nor in the RFE response has the Petitioner specifically discussed the awards 
he won at the youth level; nor did the Petitioner provide additional evidence concerning these awards 
in his RFE response. As such, the Petitioner has not established that the foreign awards in question 
have national or international recognition. 
Rather, on appeal, the Petitioner highlights the "national scope" of the following competitions: I the I I and theI 3 We note, however, that a competition's national scope is not 
synonymous with having national ( or international) recognition. Likewise, the fact that a competition 
is "nationwide" and is open to "hundreds of competitors from around the world" is also not evidence 
of its national or international recognition. And although the Petitioner points to support letters 
"confirming [his] participation and first place in the I I merely winning 
the award is not sufficient without a showing of the award's national or international recognition. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that he is among the "small percentage ofindividuals who have risen 
to the very top of their field of endeavor." This argument pertains to the broader question of whether 
3 In the appeal brief, the Petitioner refers to this competition as the However, 
the printout submitted as Exhibit D of the RFE response reflects the name as indicated above. 
3 
the Petitioner has established that he is an individual of extraordinary ability. However, to warrant a 
comprehensive analysis addressing this broader issue, the Petitioner must first establish that he is either 
the recipient of a one-time achievement award or that he meets at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). Here, the Petitioner claims that he satisfied the latter component, 
which is based, in part, on the claim that he received lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards in his field of endeavor. As discussed above, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient 
evidence establishing that the awards he received have national or international recognition. 
Therefore, he has not satisfied this criterion. 
2. Evidence of Participation as a Judge of the Work of Others 
The other criterion we will address is listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and requires evidence that 
the Petitioner participated as a judge of the work of others in his field. 
The only evidence the Petitioner submitted to claim that he satisfied this criterion is a letter from Mr. 
I I who discussed his role as an organizer of the I 2020, a two-
day international dance competition which he stated took place on I Mr. I I 
expressed gratitude for the Petitioner's participation and stated that the Petitioner was invited to judge 
participants in the category of the competition. The Petitioner also provided a 
printout ofthe competition's homepage, which included basic information about the competition, such 
as dates, time, and location, and listed Mr. I I as one of the six event organizers. We note, 
however, that the printed webpage contains a discrepancy regarding the dates of the competition, 
which leads us to question the reliability of the information contained in the printout. Namely, while 
the dates provided by Mr. I I match those listed on the home page of the competition's 
promotional logo, different dates are contained elsewhere in the same printout. For instance, the 
bottom of the page lists the event date as I I 2020" and not as Mr. I I 
stated in his letter. The "Event Schedule Details," which are listed on the right-hand side of the same 
page, show 2020 07:00 PMI 2020 11:59 PM" as the dates of the 
event. We note that neither Mr. I I nor the dance competition promotional logo mentioned the I I dates, thus calling into question the validity of Mr. I I claims. This also calls into 
question the validity of the information provided in the website printout, which contains the names of 
the individuals or organizations that are claimed as the event organizers. See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988) (stating that inconsistencies in the record must be resolved with 
independent, objective evidence). 
In addition, Mr. I I letter does not contain specific, detailed information reflecting probative 
evidence of the Petitioner's judging experience. For example, the letters do not include names of 
individuals or dates ofjudging. In addition, the Petitioner did not offer any evidence, such as candidate 
evaluation records, to corroborate the claims in the letter. The Petitioner's submission of one letter 
making vague claims about his purported judging activity is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner merely argues that he is not required to provide "extensive documentation" 
to show that he meets a given criterion. While that may be trne, we find that the evidence the Petitioner 
submitted was deficient and does not meet the preponderance of the evidence standard. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. As stated, the letter from Mr. I I lacks critical information 
about the Petitioner's judging experience, and the printout from the competition's website contains 
4 
inconsistent information about the competition's event dates, which leads us to question the validity 
of the printout and information contained therein. 
For the reasons discussed above, we find that the Petitioner has not satisfied the judging criterion. 
B. Previously Approved 0-1 Nonimmigrant Petition 
Lastly, we acknowledge that evidence in the record shows that the Petitioner was previously granted 
0-1 status, a classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has 
approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, this approval 
does not preclude denial of an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard - statute, regulations, and case law. USCIS is not precluded from denying a Form I-140 
immigrant petition after approving a nonimmigrant petition. See, e.g., Sun lift Int 'l v. Mayorkas, et al., 
2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 2021); Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. ofJustice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, aff'd,905 F. 2d at 41. We further note that each petition filing is a separate 
proceeding with a separate record. In this instance, the previously filed 0-1 petition approval that the 
Petitioner has referenced is not in the record that is before us. In making a determination of statutory 
eligibility, we are limited to the information contained in that individual record of proceedings. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). 
III. CONCLUSION 
As stated earlier, the Petitioner would not establish that he met three out of ten criteria even if he 
established that he met the elements of the two remaining criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and (vii). As such, we need not address the Petitioner's claims regarding these criteria, nor do we need 
to provide the type offinal merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Because 
these issues are not dispositive of this appeal, we will reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. at 25-26. 
In sum, the Petitioner has not shown that he met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 21, 2023 In Re: 28785726 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proofto demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue work in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual 's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petlt10ner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims "national and international champion titles" in several styles of Wushu, or 
Chinese martial arts. The Petitioner has taught martial arts and "Traditional Chinese ;ealthl 
Preservation Techni ues" at China since 2007. He "also holds the position o 
" The Petitioner asserts that he has trained ~---------------------~ law enforcement officers, published books about Wushu, and served as a judge at international 
championship competitions. 
The Petitioner claimed to have received a major, internationally recognized award, and to have 
satisfied six ofthe alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had met two of the alternate criteria, pertaining to 
participation as a judge and authorship of scholarly articles, but that the Petitioner had not met the 
other claimed criteria or established that he had received a major, internationally recognized award. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the criteria pertaining to lesser prizes and membership 
in associations. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's other conclusions regarding major 
prizes, published material, and original contributions, and therefore has waived appeal on those 
issues. 1 
We will discuss the two disputed criteria below. 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field o_f'endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
1 See Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. US. Att'.v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at* 1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
The Petitioner submitted copies ofcertificates indicating that he won first place at seven competitions: 
• 70 kg Men's Group A, 2000; .........~------------------ ............. • 70 kg Men's Group, 2005· 
• IMen's Youth Group Traditional Yang Style Tai Chi Quan, 2006 lChina;2 ~-------~ 
• Men's Traditional Yang Style Tai Chi Quan, 2013I I China; and ~-----------~ 
• Three events for males aged 26-55 at the 2017 ~------------------~ o Other Chen Style Taiji Quan; 
o Xingyi, Bagua, Baji, Fanzi; and 
o Other Traditional Hand Forms. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that some ofthe named events drew from national or 
international pools ofcompetitors, but the Director dete1mined that the Petitioner had not established that 
his "awards had a substantial level of recognition." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the competitions in China "were held under the auspice[s] of ... 
China's official national government agency of all sports." The regulat01y language requires that the 
prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized. The reputation of the organization holding 
a given competition does not necessarily establish that a given prize or award from that competition is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 3 In this respect, it is significant that the Petitioner has submitted 
background information regarding some ofthe awarding entities, but he has not submitted evidence about 
awards from the competitions. For example, he did not show that the media, or even the organizations 
themselves, reported or announced the results ofthe competitions in which he participated.4 The evidence 
submitted does not establish recognition ofthe awards named on the Petitioner's certificates. 
The Petitioner has not met his burden ofproof with regard to this regulatory criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classffication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record contains information about the Petitioner's memberships in various organizations, but on 
appeal, the Petitioner only discusses his membership on theI I 
I 1-Therefore, the Petitioner has waived appeal on the Director's determinations 
regarding the other claimed memberships. 
2 The Petitioner did not document the age range for the "Youth Group." The Petitioner was 29 years old when the 
competition took place in 2006. 
3 The regulation specifically requires national or international recognition ofthe prize or award; the reputation ofthe awarding 
entity does not suffice. The USCIS Policy Manual acknowledges this distinction, indicating that "[c]ertain awards from well­
known national institutions" "may" qualify under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See generally G USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1 ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
4 National or international media coverage is one possible measure of the national or international recognition of a prize 
or award. See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B )( 1 ). 
3 
When he filed the petition in December 2021, the Petitioner claimed to be a member ofthe0,but did 
not claim to hold any position within ~ciation, nor did he claim to be seeking such a position. A 
translated membership card from the L_J indicates that the Petitioner registered as a member in 
December 2004. The document does not discuss membership requirements or describe the process by 
which the Petitioner became a member of thel I 
The Director requested additional evidence about the Petitioner's memberships, including governing 
documents to show membership requirements and establish the admission process. 
In response, the Petitio~itted a translated copy of a Certificate ofAppo.intmen.t, naming him to a 
four-year term on the l__JAdvisory Committee beginning December 24, 2021, a week before the 
petition's filing date. An accompanying "Member Qualification Evaluation Letter" indicates that the 
Petitioner's "outstanding contributions to Wushu" qualified him for appointment to the Committee. 
In denying the petition, the Director cited several reasons why the Certificate of Appointment and 
accompanying materials lacked probative value. The record does not support all of these grounds. For 
example, the Director stated that the translated documents lacked a translation certification as required by 
8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(14 ), but the required certification is in the record. But one of the Director's key 
conclusions is on a stronger footing. 
A translated web printout identified as including excerpts from the I Iconstitution indicates that 
individuals "who have made outstanding contributions to and international influence . . . may apply 
directly to the~to become members of the Advisory Committee." The Director correctly observed 
that the submitted printout does not identify the web address ofthe document to permit verification ofthe 
claimed contents. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that the printout is "from the.__ ____________ ~official 
website:'--------~·" Statements in an appellate brief are not evidence and thus are not entitled 
to any evidentiary weight.I See Mitter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1998). The stated address is 
for the home page of the website, rather than its constitution specifically. The I Iweb 
address appears on a separate letter, but not on the printout showing the constitution itself or its translation. 
Furthermore, although the translated web printout includes part of a document identified as the ~I-~ 
constitution the to of the a e bears the insi nia and the name, in both Chinese and English, of the 
------------------~· A banner near the top of the page also identifies the 
This information indicates that the document appeared 
on._____.website, rather than the.__ _ __.website. The burden of proof is on the Petitioner, and the 
Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that the constitution appears on thel 
website as claimed, or that the printout in the record matches the document on th~ I website. 
An immigrant petition may be approved after an investigation of the facts in each case, and after a 
dete1mination that the facts stated in the petition are ttue. Section 204(b) ofthe Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1154(b). 
Evidence submitted without a means of verification hampers the ability to investigate the facts and 
determine that the facts claimed in the petition are true. Here, the Petitioner did not provide a specific 
address for the document submitted, and did not establish that thel I constitution appears at the 
address shown on the separate letter. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established the authenticity and 
4 I 
accuracy ofthe document presented as part ofthd !constitution. Therefore, the evidence submitted 
does not meet the Petitioner's burden of proof to establish that his membership on theD Advisory 
Committee constitutes membership in an association that requires outstanding achievements as required 
by 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
oftheir respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of his work at a level that 
indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) ofthe Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) ofthe Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Furthermore, we note that the Petitioner seeks to work in the United States not as a competitive athlete 
but as an instructor. From the limited evidence submitted, the most significant competition documented 
in the record took place in 2013, more than eight years before the Petitioner filed the petition in late 2021. 
In such circumstances, we may place greater weight on the non-competitive activities that the individual 
has pursued. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2). 
The Petitioner has written articles in scholarly journals and published books for a wider audience, but the 
record does not establish that these publications have had an impact that would show sustained national 
or international acclaim. Much of the Petitioner's work documented in the record is at the provincial 
level, and the Petitioner's information about the large population of Shandong Province does not address 
the statutory requirement for recognition and sustained acclaim at a national or international level. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19390244 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 22, 2021 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chef, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner bad satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider that decision. The Director granted 
the motion and again denied the petition. The Petitioner appealed that decision to us, and we dismissed 
the appeal. 
The Petitioner contested our appellate decision in a filing which he, at various times, called both an 
appeal and a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. We dismissed the Petitioner's filing as 
untimely. The matter is now before us on another combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Upon 
review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration , identify errors of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) policy, and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord 
at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration , a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal on April 28, 2020. On July 30, 2020, the Petitioner filed Form 
I-290B to contest our decision. 
On June 2, 2021, we dismissed the Petitioner's filing as untimely, stating: 
We are dismissing your Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, because it was 
untimely filed. You must file a motion on an unfavorable decision within 33 calendar 
days of the date we mailed the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l), 103.8(b). As well, on 
March 30, 2020, USCIS issued Leadership Guidance providing flexibility allowing up 
to 60 days from the date of the decision for the submission of a Form I-290B. 1 On 
April 28, 2020, we mailed the unfavorable decision to you. Your Form I-290B was 
received at the designated filing location on July 30, 2020, which is 93 days after the 
decision. 
On motion, the Petitioner states: "As a result of COVID-19 restrictions, USCIS has created guideline 
flexibility in responding to certain requests. The guidelines state[]: 'USCIS will consider a response 
to the above requests and notices received within 60 calendar days after the response due date set in 
the request or notice before taking action."' The Petitioner asserts that this guidance added 60 days to 
the motion's original filing deadline of May 30, 2021, and that, therefore, his July 30, 2021 filing was 
timely. 
The March 2020 Leadership Guidance, however, added 60 days to the response time for "certain 
Requests for Evidence (RFE) and Notices oflntent to Deny (NOID)" and similar requests and notices. 
The same guidance also specified: "Any Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days/ram the date 
of the decision will be considered by USCIS before it takes any action" (emphasis added). Subsequent 
extensions likewise specified the same period of 60 days from the date of the decision; it did not add 
60 days to the existing filing period.2 We note that Form I-290B is not a "response" to a notice or 
request, representing continuing action in the context of an existing benefit request. Rather, it is a 
filing which initiates a new stage in the proceeding, requiring its own decision or other disposition. 
USCIS guidance separately refers to the Form I-290B timeframe. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that we erred by dismissing his July 2021 filing 
as untimely. 
When the Petitioner filed Form I-290B in July 2020, he indicated that a supplement would follow. 
We received the supplemental filing on August 12, 2020. After taking these actions, the Petitioner 
indicated in March 2021 that he intended the filing to be a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, 
rather than an appeal. 
While the regulations permit a petitioner to supplement an appeal that has already been filed, there is 
no similar provision for motions. Rather, a motion to reconsider must be complete "when filed." See 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). With respect to motions to reopen, the regulations acknowledge that new facts, 
which warrant a motion to reopen, may arise after the deadline to file a timely motion. Rather than 
allowing a placeholder filing followed by a supplement, however, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
1 See "'USCIS Expands Flexibility for Responding to USCIS Requests," https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts/uscis-expands­
flexibility-for-responding-to-uscis-requests. 
2 See https://www.uscis.gov/news/alerts for a searchable database that includes periodic extensions of the flexibility period. 
2 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(i) gives us discretion to accept an untimely motion to reopen "where it is demonstrated 
that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner." Here, the 
Petitioner has not established any reasonable delay, beyond his control, that prevented him from filing 
the motion to reopen within the 60 days permitted by the USCIS Leadership Guidance. 
The Petitioner states, in his current motion, that he "reiterated his excusable delay," but the July 2020 
filing included no explanation or acknowledgment of the delay in filing. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner's August 2020 supplement was not properly incorporated into 
the filing of a motion to reopen or a motion to reconsider. 
Finally, the Petitioner's latest filing includes arguments regarding the merits of his underlying petition, 
and disputing the conclusions in our April 2020 appellate decision. By regulation, a motion is limited 
to "the prior decision" in the proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Our April 2020 decision did 
not address the merits of the petition; it was limited to the procedural issue of timeliness. Therefore, 
any assertions of error with regard to the merits would not constitute grounds for reconsideration. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reconsideration and has not 
overcome the grounds for dismissal of the prior motion. We will therefore dismiss the motion to 
reconsider. 
We will also dismiss the motion to reopen. The Petitioner cites, and quotes, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2), which requires the Petitioner to state new facts, but the Petitioner has not stated any new 
facts. Instead, the motion rests on procedural arguments. The Petitioner also resubmits the brief and 
exhibits that he submitted in August 2020, but these materials were already in the record and do not 
represent new facts or new evidence. The Petitioner's latest filing does not meet the requirements of 
a motion to reopen, and therefore we must dismiss that motion. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6057007 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 23, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a lead singer and songwriter, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at 
least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence, and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder, lead singer, and songwriter fotj I an Armenian! lband. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, relating to his 
receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Evidence in the record establishes that the Petitioner has r . ........, ..................... ..1.1.1.LJ......, 
than 15 music awards in Armenia between 2008 and 2018. These awards include .,............_ __ ..--_ _, 
andl lat the National Music Awards, Best~-----~and .~--~ Armenian Music Awards, and various national awards sponsored by major radio and television 
networks in Armenia, among others. The Petitioner's documentation of his awards was accompanied 
by evidence, including media coverage from several sources, demonstrating that the awards 
themselves are nationally recognized, and evidence from the sponsoring organizations confirming that 
the Petitioner, asl Is songwriter and lead singer, was the individual recipient of most of 
these awards. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that this criterion has been met. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in his assessment of evidence submitted with 
respect to several other alternate regulatory criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Upon review, we 
agree with this assertion, as the Director's decision was lacking a detailed analysis of the evidence 
submitted in support of his petition with respect to certain criteria. An officer must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the 
decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); 
see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
First, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The Petitioner submitted published materials about him and his work as a musician 
which appeared in newspapers, magazines, and on-line media, such as news and entertainment 
2 
websites, along with evidence from independent sources providing background information on 
Armenian print publications and digital media. The Petitioner submitted more than 20 articles under 
this criterion. However, the Director did not specifically reference any one publication or article in 
his analysis of the evidence, nor did he reference the supporting evidence submitted with respect to 
the circulation statistics for the publications that have covered the Petitioner's career as a musician. 
Rather, the Director's decision references "websites, biogs, and social media," includes a general 
analysis of the probative value of material published on the Internet, and concludes that "the 
information submitted from the bulk ofblogs and websites have little probative value for meeting this 
criterion." 
The Director's suggestion that all of the submitted evidence was derived from "websites, biogs and 
social media" is erroneous, and we agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not adequately review 
the submitted evidence. Accordingly, we will remand this matter for the Director to re-examine the 
evidence submitted under this criterion, which included both print media and articles published by 
legitimate online news media. 
Next, the Director concluded that the Petitioner had not provided sufficient evidence that he 
participated, either individually or as a member of a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same 
or an allied field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim 
that he served as a member of a panel of judges for the 'I t' International Music Contest in 
2014, but referenced only two of more than ten evidentiary exhibits submitted by the Petitioner in 
determining that he did not meet this criterion. The Director also noted that "the regulation [ at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)] cannot be read to include every informal instance of evaluating subordinate 
employees," an observation that appears to be unrelated to the evidence the Petitioner submitted 
related to his judging of an international music competition. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Petitioner's claim on appeal that the Director did not fully consider the submitted evidence and instruct 
him to re-examine this criterion on remand. 
We further note that the Director declined to review the evidence the Petitioner submitted to satisfy 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), which relates to the display of the individual's work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases. The Director emphasized that this criterion is "limited to the visual 
arts." We disagree with the Director's determination that the plain language of the regulation renders 
this criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that the work displayed 
be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the individual's work was 
displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); see also USCIS Policy 
Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 9-10 (Dec. 
22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that officers 
should use the common dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this 
criterion). As certain exhibitions or showcases featuring performing artists meet the plain language 
of this regulation, the Director should not have summarily disregarded the Petitioner's evidence and 
should re-examine this criterion on remand. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in determining that the Petitioner could not satisfy 
the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director noted that the 
Petitioner had submitted evidence that he is the founder and lead singer of the bandl I but 
3 
determined that a band "is not an organization or establishment" and thus the evidence has no probative 
value for purposes of this criterion. Here, we are unable to determine whether the Director considered 
evidence the Petitioner provided in response to a request for evidence (RFE). This evidence included 
documentation related to the company 1 I" as well as a charitable foundation that 
was established by the Petitioner, and was intended to establish that he played a leading or critical role 
for these organizations, rather than simply for the band itself The Director's analysis suggests that he 
considered only the initial evidence submitted in support of this criterion, and for this additional 
reason, we will remand the matter to the Director. 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least two additional criterion beyond the two 
already met, his decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim 
and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
Finally, although not addressed in the Director's RFE or denial decision, the record as presently 
constituted does not contain sufficient evidence that the Petitioner is coming to the United States to 
continue work in his area of expertise. Pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), such 
evidence may include letters from prospective employers, evidence of pre-arranged commitments such 
as contracts, or a statement from the petitioner detailing plans on they intend to continue their work in 
the United States. At the time of filing, the Petitioner submitted a "statement of intent" indicating 
that he "will continue to work in the United States as a singer." However, this brief and general 
statement does not detail his plans for continuing his work consistent with the regulatory requirements. 
For this additional reason, we will remand the matter to the Director. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/ 
HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the 
petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high 
level of expe1iise of the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23090852 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 23, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, 
Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), concluding that even though the Petitioner met at 
least three of the ten regulatory criteria, he did not establish he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor or that he has demonstrated sustained acclaim. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician who plays the Venezuelan cuatro; a stringed instrument prevalent in Latin 
American folk music. His recent activities include work in advertising and performing in a series of 
concerts in the United States while here on his 0-1 nonimmigrant visa. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed to have met the following 
six categories: 
• Display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• High salary or remuneration; 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Published material about him and his work; 
• Participation as a judge; and 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities. 
The Director decided the Petitioner met four of the evidentiary criteria relating to awards, published 
material, judging, and leading or critical roles, but that he had not satisfied the remaining categories 
listed above. On appeal, the Petitioner no longer claims the display or high salary criteria, and he has 
abandoned those claims. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we are withdrawing the 
Director's favorable determinations on the awards and the published material criteria. The result is 
that the Petitioner will only satisfy two of criteria, but the regulation requires he meet three to proceed 
to a final merits determination. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion based on the following awards: 
• I I Award in 2015 for the Musician and Arranger of the Year; and • Award in 201 7 for the Best Musician and Cuatro Player of the Year. 
Within his correspondence to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the Petitioner 
referred to these awards as thd I A ward. He further provided a testimonial 
letter from another artist stating the Petitioner was twice the recipient of the I I award. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion. We conduct appellate 
review on a de nova basis. For the reasons outlined below, a review of the record of proceeding does 
not reflect that the Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence establishing he meets the 
plain language requirements of this criterion and the Director's favorable determination on this issue 
is hereby withdrawn. 
First, we note the record neither corroborates the Petitioner's nor the author of the testimonial letter's 
contention that he received an award titled Award, or I I 
Although the testimonial letter claims the Petitioner is the recipient of multiple prestigious awards, he 
failed to provide evidence of those particular awards. The regulation and the petition's instructions each 
informed the Petitioner that his initial evidence requirements included evidence he was the recipient of 
prizes or awards. 
A testimonial letter from someone in the industry that is not corroborated by the primary evidence of the 
prize or award falls short of meeting the Petitioner's burden of proof that he received the specified award. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(2) (indicating only where the filing party demonstrates that primary evidence 
does not exist or cannot be obtained may they rely on secondary evidence, and only where secondary 
evidence is demonstrated to be unavailable may the petitioner rely on affidavits or letters). 
Unsupported conclusory letters from those in the Petitioner's field are not sufficient evidence that a 
particular prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Second, even though the Petitioner provided the awards as presented in the above bullets, the 
supporting materials to demonstrate those accolades are nationally or internationally recognized do 
not contain a sufficient nexus to the specific awards he provided for the record. The media coverage 
the Petitioner provided relates to a recurring event that issues awards; the Awards. 
If it is the Petitioner's contention that any award emanating from this recurring event is adequate to 
satisfy this criterion, a prize or an award does not gamer national or international recognition from the 
competition in which it is awarded, nor is it automatically derived from the individual or group that 
issued the award. Rather, national and international recognition results through the awareness of the 
accolade in the eyes of the field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident 
through specific means; for example, but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. 
3 
Absent from the record is evidence demonstrating his specific awards garnered national or 
international recognition within his field of endeavor. Additionally, the Petitioner did not offer more 
general coverage relating to his specific awards (the Musician and Arranger of the Year and the Best 
Musician and Cuatro Player of the Year) originating from national or international media. 
We also note some conflicting information within the evidence relating to the history of the awardin 
entit . The Petitioner rovided a translated letter from l the presidenn t of 
This is the entity that oversees the A ward 
events . letter and the article from El Universal each reflect the award event was created 
50 years ago. The article from La Nata Latina reflects the award event has 61 years of history. While 
these inconsistencies do not fully undermine the Petitioner's claims, he should be prepared to address 
or remedy the incongruent information in any future filing. 
As the Petitioner has not adequately established his awards were nationally or internationally 
recognized, he has not satisfied all of this criterion's requirements and we withdraw the Director's 
favorable determination as it relates to this regulatory provision. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided six forms of evidence. The Director determined the Petitioner met the 
requirements of this criterion. We do not agree that any one form of evidence satisfies all of this 
criterion's requirements, and we will withdraw the Director's favorable determination. 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary requirements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the 
published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to his work in the field 
under which he seeks classification as an immigrant. The published material must also appear in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Professional or major trade publications 
are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. To qualify as major media, the Petitioner must 
establish the circulation statistics are high relative to other similar forms of media. The final 
requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if the 
published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
We begin by noting issues with the evidence relating to the Petitioner's most significant claim relating 
to published material about him and his work, from "Billboard Venezuela Magazine and Online." 
First, the original document is not the article itself and it appears the Petitioner copied the text and 
pasted it onto a Word document, then provided the URL and some other related information. We were 
unable to verify the article exists relying on the URL, and additional efforts to confirm the article's 
existence did not result in a discovery of any articles about the Petitioner on the Billboard website. 
Additionally, when performing the copy and paste action, it appears they did not capture the full article 
as the text stops mid-sentence. Furthermore, the English translation is not a full translation of the 
4 
article as it begins mid-sentence. It also does not contain the title, date, and author as the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires. Finally, the Petitioner provided the website traffic information 
for the billboard.com website for the United States and not for Venezuela, and he did not offer 
evidence relating to the "billboard.com.ve"-".ve" for Venezuela-country top-level domain name as 
the evidence reflected. We conclude this evidence does not satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
Now, we tum to the coverage from the publication Iberoeconomia Espana en positive. This evidence 
is in the form of an article, it contains a title and a date, but no author, which is required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Additionally, this was originally a foreign language website, 
and the site does not appear to be an English version sponsored and translated by the website. This 
raises questions with regard to the manner in which the evidence was translated. Moreover, it is not 
accompanied by a certified translation that complies with the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). 
Focusing on the circulation statistics for this publication, we observe that the article is from October 
2018 and the Petitioner provided the website traffic data from an unspecified source indicating the 
website receives approximately 88,000 monthly visits. USCIS policy discusses the requirements for 
published material under this criterion stating that it should "establish that the circulation ( on-line or 
in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well 
as the title, date, and author of the material." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The Petitioner did not submit other circulation statistics in 
which to compare with this publication. Without demonstrating the author of the article, establishing 
it was properly translated, and that the publication's circulation statistics were high compared to 
similar publications, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish the Iberoeconomf a 
Espana en positive constitutes major media. 
Next, the Petitioner offers two online articles from Factores de Poder. Both articles contain the title, 
date, and author and both are about the Petitioner and are related to his work. However, these articles 
do not satisfy all of the criterion's requirements because the Petitioner has not demonstrated it is a 
form of major media. The Petitioner provided a printout from Similar Web reflecting a country rank 
of 3,242, NIA for the category rank, and in illegible category title with an associated number of 
approximately 118,000. The evidence relating to both articles is poorly photocopied, and we are 
unable to determine what the 118,000 figure represents. This fails to satisfy the Petitioner's burden 
of proof as he has not demonstrated this publication's circulation is high compared to other circulation 
statistics. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendices). 
As the fifth form of evidence, the Petitioner offers an advertisement for a musical performance that 
appeared in the El Universal print newspaper. Although this content appeared in a newspaper in 
I 12007, it is among a collection of advertisements for upcoming music and food events. The 
material lists the company that is putting on the event, the Petitioner and some of his songs, other 
artists he has performed with in the past, and the location, date and time of the event. Advertisements 
and announcements for shows and productions that simply list the Petitioner as one of the performers 
are not "published material" consistent with the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Additionally, this material is lacking an author, first of which it does not comply 
with this criterion's stated requirements, and second the absence of an author supports the view that it 
5 
1s not published material consistent with the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The final form of evidence the Petitioner claims is an interview on Vive TV. According to the certified 
translation of the Certificate,! the General Producer of Vive TV provided the URL where 
the content appears on Y outube. The interview was performed in a foreign language. The Petitioner 
only provided transcripts of the interview in the English language, but no original version in Spanish, 
and no certified translations. This material therefore does not satisfy the regulatory requirements 
relating to foreign language evidence. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). 
Regarding Vive TV as a form of major media, I I letter reflects this entity broadcasts in 
Venezuela, but the record lacks any evidence of viewership, and the Petitioner did not offer evidence 
of other broadcasters in which to compare. While Vive TV may exist as a broadcast channel, the fact 
that it is broadcast over the airwaves or on cable does not establish its qualification as major media. 
For instance, a local high school or other local organization may broadcast programs on local access 
television, but the simple act of airing programs did not transform those shows into a form of major 
media. Were we to compare viewership ratings of local access programs to most productions of the 
major networks, we would draw stark contrasts in the number of viewers each medium receives. We 
therefore conclude the submitted evidence does not show a comparison to other television channels in 
Venezuela, and absent that evidence, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his television interview 
appeared in a form of major media. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices). 
Finally, I I letter also provides a link to the interview on Y ouTube. The fact that the 
Petitioner's interview is available on Y ouTube is not persuasive that this is published material in major 
media. The internet in general and Y ouTube in particular are arenas available to any user with access 
to a computer regardless of notoriety or recognition in the arts. To ignore this reality would be to 
render the "major media" requirement in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) meaningless. 
International accessibility on the internet by itself is not a realistic indicator of whether a given website 
constitutes "major media" published material. 
We conclude the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion, and we withdraw the Director's favorable determination. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Director granted four criteria and we have withdrawn two of those, the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the plain language requirements of at least three criteria. Although he claims eligibility for 
two additional criteria on appeal, relating to judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
and performing in a leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(viii), it is unnecessary for us to reach 
a decision on these additional criteria because he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) 
(finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of 
the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
He therefore has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
instance, the Petitioner received two awards during a career spanning almost two decades, and he only 
provided information relating to the event that issues those accolades. 
However, the record lacks confirmation that his particular awards themselves received national or 
international attention. Considering the Petitioner's career is approaching two decades, such a showing 
of only two awards within a three-year span, that lack adequate recognition, does not represent sustained 
acclaim at the national or international level. Additionally, a small number of awards that are not among 
those that are highly regarded in the field do not amount to examples of extensive documentation of the 
Petitioner's accolades nor are they achievements that are commensurate with the small fraction of awards 
or prizes at the top of the Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 23, 2024 In Re: 34673704 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an artificial intelligence (Al) researcher , seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b)(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The matter is now 
before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation , 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner , an AI researcher , intends to continue his activities in this field in the United States. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of these ten criteria, relating to his participation as a 
judge of the work of others in his field and his authorship of scholarly articles, and we agree with the 
Director's determination . See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) , (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the Director erred in assessing the evidence submitted with respect to several other regulatory criteria 
found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
1. Membership in Associations Requiring Outstanding Achievement of Their Members. 
To meet this requirement , a petitioner must submit documentation of their "membership in 
associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of 
their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) . 
The Petitioner initially provided evidence of his purported memberships in the following groups: 
• Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) 
• International Association of Engineers (IAENG) 
• Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Computer Society 
• International Society for Applied Computing (ISAC) 
2 
The Petitioner also claimed to be a member of Scale Artificial Intelligence, Artificial Intelligence, and 
the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, but did not submit documentation in support of 
this claim. 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), noting that the Petitioner's evidence must be 
supported by documentary evidence that these associations require outstanding achievements of their 
members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. In 
response, the Petitioner submitted copies of the constitutions and bylaws for AAAI, ISAC, and the 
IEEE Computer Society. No further documentation pertaining to his claimed membership in IAENG 
was provided. 
Although the Petitioner has provided documentation in support of his membership in three AI-related 
organizations, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
For example, the documentation pertaining to his membership in AAAI, dated May 6, 2023, states 
that his "application for membership has been received and is currently being processed," thereby 
raising questions as to whether the Petitioner was actually a member of this association at the time of 
filing. Moreover, AAAl's bylaws state that "[a] person becomes a member (Regular or Student) upon 
acceptance of an application for membership by the corporation and the payment of dues." There is 
no indication in the association's bylaws that membership in AAAI requires outstanding achievements 
of their members or that national or international experts judge the achievements ofaspiring members. 
The Petitioner also submitted a certificate from the IEEE Computer Society indicating that he was an 
"affiliate in good standing." Similar to AAAI, the IEEE Computer Society's bylaws are silent on 
whether the organization requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by international 
experts. The bylaws simply identify the classes of membership, which include member, society 
affiliate, associate, student, and graduate student, and indicate that to transfer to the class of member, 
a candidate shall either be a member ( or higher grade) of the IEEE or be qualified as an IEEE affiliate. 
The documentation pertaining to the Petitioner's membership in ISAC is likewise insufficient. The 
Petitioner presented an undated certificate indicating that he is a senior member of the organization. 
The organization's constitution and bylaws simply state that membership "is open to all persons who 
share the stated purposes of the Society and who have educational, research, or practical experience 
in some aspect ofcytometry." As membership in ISAC is open to any person desiring to be a member 
that meets these requirements, outstanding achievements, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts, are not requirements for membership with this organization. 
Finally, although the Petitioner submitted letters from IAENG confirming his membership, the 
Petitioner declined to submit evidence of the membership requirements for this association. The 
Petitioner also failed to provide evidence that admittance is determined by nationally or internationally 
recognized experts in the field. As the record does not contain the bylaws or other official 
documentation of this association's membership criteria, we cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's 
membership is qualifying. 
The record lacks evidence that any of the organizations discussed above require outstanding 
achievements of their members or that national or international experts judge the achievements of 
aspiring members. See, e.g., Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105, 2007 WL 9229758, *5 (S.D. Cal. July 
3 
6, 2007), affd, 317 Fed. Appx 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (holding that, without evidence that any of the 
organizations required outstanding achievements of their members, a petitioner's membership in 
multiple Jiu Jitsu organizations did not satisfy 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii)). Thus, the Petitioner has not 
met this evidentiary requirement. 
2. Original Contributions of Major Significance. 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e ]vidence ofthe [ noncitizen' s] original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). USCTS should first determine whether a noncitizen has made original 
contributions in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the Agency should then determine whether any of them 
are of "major significance." Id. 
In support of his purported original contributions to his field, the Petitioner submitted seven support 
letters. Two former university professors of the Petitioner praise his academic achievements and 
acknowledge his research accomplishments in machine learning and AI as it pertains to the 
agroecosystem. A senior research scientist from the Petitioner's current employer states that since he 
was hired, the Petitioner has "successfully built AT models from scratch" and "has retrained artificial 
intelligence systems and models." While these letters generally offer praise for the Petitioner's skills 
and accomplishments in the field of AI, they do not specify the significance of the Petitioner's 
contributions to his field. Moreover, the authors comprise former professors and the current employer 
of the Petitioner. See, e.g., Goncharov v. Allen, No. 3:21-CV-1372-B, 2022 WL 17327304, *5 (N.D. 
Tex. Nov. 29, 2022) (holding that 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) "requires substantial influence beyond 
one's employers, clients, or customers") ( citations omitted). 
The other four support letters also do not specify the significance of the Petitioner's contributions to 
his field. For example, a letter from a technologist employed byl Istates that he is familiar with 
the Petitioner's publications and conference presentations. He briefly discusses the Petitioner's AI 
work in the field ofanimal husbandry, and concludes that "given the fact that citations are the hallmark 
of a researcher's impact, it is clear evidence that he has generated contributions of major significance 
that have been widely recognized in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) field." 
Another I I employee states that the Petitioner has made "several noteworthy contributions" to 
AT and computational agriculture research, but he fails to specify or discuss in detail the nature and 
significance of those contributions. A professor from the 
highlights the citation statistics for the Petitioner's peer-reviewed article and concludes that such 
statistics highlight the impact of his work. A senior data scientist from I lopines that the 
Petitioner is an expert in the area of high-performance computing and that his research in pattern 
recognition "is of immense impact on our society today." He further concludes that the Petitioner's 
research impacts the U.S. Department of Agriculture's long-standing efforts to address food security 
and advance food and nutritional security. 
To establish "major significance," evidence must show that a petitioner's work has been "widely" 
adopted or replicated by people in the field who are unaffiliated with the petitioner. Amin v. Mayorkas, 
24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). The evidence must include "specific information relating to the 
impact of a petitioner's work in the field as a whole." Visinscaia, 4 F.Supp.3d at 134. Here, the 
4 
Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence or 
high impact his research or work has had on the overall field. Rather, they simply opine that the 
Petitioner is a skilled and successful researcher. It is the Petitioner's burden to both specify his 
original contributions and to document the major significance of those contributions in the field. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's research contributed to the field, as is inherently the case of 
research-type fields, the letters did not establish how those contributions have been majorly significant, 
as required by the regulation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). Detailed 
letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance ofthe person's contribution may 
also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major significance, 
particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed significance. 
Id. Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its significance to the 
field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. Id. In this case, the 
letters lacked specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner's contributions have 
influenced or impacted in a majorly significant manner or have somehow risen to level considered to 
be of major significance. USCTS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The 
US. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Further, the Petitioner submitted copies of his published scholarly articles in the field as well as citation 
statistics. But the record does not show that others in the field regularly cited his articles or otherwise 
explain their significance. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.(2)(B)(l) ("[P]ublished research 
that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others working in the field, and 
documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in that field, may be probative of 
the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor"). While other researchers' 
reliance on the Petitioner's work is a positive element, and can be a method to corroborate the assertion 
that the Petitioner's noteworthy influence on the work of others establishes that his contributions in 
the field are of major significance, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to demonstrate that a 
good number ofresearchers have been sufficiently influenced by his work such that it rises to the level 
of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not demonstrated how the citing articles place a 
heavy reliance on his work to support their own findings or that the number of citations is indicative 
of a widespread influence. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that researchers from multiple countries have cited to his work 
and that such citations demonstrate that international sources have noticed and referenced his work. 
Although others within the Petitioner's field have relied on his research findings within their own work, 
this is insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has made contributions of major significance within 
the field. While such citations to his work signify a contribution in the field, the Petitioner has not 
provided evidence that demonstrates the impact of the articles that cite his work, or that these citing 
articles have been considerably influential within the field as a whole. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred by not considering the increase in citations to 
the Petitioner's work subsequent to the filing ofthe petition. In support ofthis assertion, the Petitioner 
refers to our non-precedent decision concerning the acceptance of updated citation history after the 
petition's filing. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCTS 
officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Unpublished agency decisions and advisory 
legal opinions are not binding, even when they are published in private publications or widely 
5 
circulated. R.L. Inv. Ltd Partners v. INS, 86 F. Supp. 2d 1014, 1022 (D. Haw. 2000), aff'd, 273 F.3d 
874 (9th Cir. 2001). Nevertheless, the facts of that case are distinguishable from those presented in 
this matter, as the case relied on by the Petitioner pertains to a request for employment-based second 
preference immigrant classification, as well as a national interest waiver of the job offer requirement 
attached to that classification, pursuant to section 203(b)(2) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(2). 
As properly noted by the Director, the Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at 
the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Subsequent facts cannot retroactively establish 
eligibility. See Matter ofKatigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). Therefore, we do not 
agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director erred by not considering the additional citations 
to the Petitioner's work subsequent to the filing of the petition. 
As the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated the significance of his contributions to his field, 
we will affirm the Director's finding that he did not meet the evidentiary requirement at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
3. Performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 
To qualify under this criterion, a petitioner must show that they played 
a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment, and that that organization or establishment has a distinguished 
reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). When evaluating whether a role is leading, we look at whether 
the evidence establishes that the person is or was a leader within the organization, or a department or 
division thereof. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is or was leading. Id. For a critical role, we look at 
whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or 
department of the organization or establishment. Id. 
The Petitioner maintains that he has performed in a leading or critical role for 
In support of this assertion, the Petitioner submits a copy of his letter of 
appointment to the position of Director of Information and Computer Technology (ICT), which 
indicates that the duties of his position included developing and implementing ICT strategies in line 
with the institution's goals and objectives, overseeing the maintenance and upgrading of the 
institution's ICT infrastructure, leading and managing the ICT team to ensure efficient delivery of 
services, providing expert advice and guidance on ICT related matters to senior management, and 
ensuring compliance with relevant ICT policies, procedures, and regulations. The Petitioner also 
submitted an appropriation bill and a letter of commendation in support of the assertion that he meets 
the plain language of this criterion. 
The Petitioner also claims that he performs in a leading or critical role for his current employer, where 
he serves as an AI researcher. A letter from a senior AI researcher at the company indicates that the 
Petitioner has "successfully built AI models from scratch" and "has retrained artificial intelligence 
systems and models," in addition to implementing machine learning algorithms. 
6 
While the documentation suggests that the Petitioner played a significant role in these organizations, 
the submitted evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner's role was leading or critical. 
For example, the Petitioner did not provide an organizational chart or other similar evidence to 
establish where his role fit within the overall hierarchy of the organizations to demonstrate a leading 
role. Nor does the evidence demonstrate that he has contributed to the organizations in a way that was 
of significant importance to the outcome oftheir business operations. While the letter from his current 
employer makes the broad claim that the Petitioner is "a trne genius in the field of AI," it did not 
further elaborate and articulate how the Petitioner's role was leading or critical to the 
company. Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain 
detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the 
organization or establishment was leading or critical. See id. 
To support that an organization has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization is considered together with other relevant information, such as the scale of its customer 
base or relevant media coverage. "Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines 'distinguished' as 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence' or 'befitting an eminent person."' Id. Here, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that the organizations have distinguished reputations. In denying the 
petition, the Director noted that the Petitioner did not submit evidence, such as media coverage, to 
support the assertion that _____________ has a distinguished reputation. 
Although the Petitioner objects to the Director's statement on appeal, we note that relevant factors for 
evaluating the reputation of an organization or establishment can include the scale ofits customer base 
or relevant media coverage. See id. 
Although the Petitioner asserts that his current employer is a contractor 
and submits media coverage regarding its contracts and the company's role in the AI sector, this fact 
alone is insufficient to establish the company's eminence, distinction, or excellence. While the 
submitted documentation confirms that his current employer has obtained government contracts, the 
evidence does not demonstrate that the company itself has a distinguished reputation. Without more, 
the evidence is insufficient to establish that the company has a distinguished reputation as required by 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For the reasons outlined above, the Petitioner has not met the evidentiary requirements of 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ofthe ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
7 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 23, 2024 In Re: 34870784 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a musician who seeks first preference immigrant classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of 
a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or as someone who initially 
satisfied at least three of the ten required regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The Director determined that of the eight criteria that the Petitioner claimed, he satisfied only one 
criterion. The matter is now before us on appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal because the Petitioner did not establish that he meets the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(iii), (vi), (viii) and (x). 
The Petitioner has maintained and continues to do so on appeal that he meets the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), which relates to original contributions of major significance . However , as 
discussed below, the Petitioner would not establish that he met three out of ten criteria even if he 
established that he met this criterion. As such, we need not address this criterion, nor do we need to 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we will reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad , 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating 
that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach). 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b )(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a Brazilian bass player who also composes and arranges music and makes 
instructional videos on bass playing techniques. Because the Petitioner does not claim or submit 
evidence to show that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must provide evidence 
showing that he satisfies at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
The Petitioner claims that he meets the eight criteria that are summarized below: 
• (i), Recipient of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions; 
• (viii), Performance in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments; and 
• (x), Commercial success in performing arts as shown by box office receipts or record sales. 
2 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that his musical performances were featured at various 
venues. We therefore agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Notwithstanding this favorable determination on one criterion, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the remaining seven criteria claimed. 
Accordingly, we will address six of the seven remaining criteria in the discussion to follow, starting 
with the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires evidence that the Petitioner received a 
prize or award with national or international recognition for excellence in his field. 
The record contains evidence that the Petitioner was the winner of the 
I IAward in 2017 where he was first selected as one often finalists and then went on to win 
the contest after receiving the greatest number of popular votes among the finalists. Although the 
Director acknowledged the Petitioner's win and corresponding cash prize, she determined that the 
level of media coverage the Petitioner received as the award winner was not commensurate with 
national or international recognition. The Director noted that evidence of a press conference and two 
brief articles did not indicate national or international recognition; she further found that a short story 
mentioning the Petitioner on TV Globo was also insufficient because it did not mention the award in 
question and focused only on announcing the Petitioner's participation at a future event. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the deficiencies discussed at length in the Director's 
decision; instead, he asserts that winning the award "clearly demonstrates the high 
level of national and international recognition." We disagree. To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner 
must not only provide evidence that he won an award, but also that the award he won has national or 
international recognition. Thus, merely winning the award is not enough. Here, in addition to 
underscoring that he won the I I award, the Petitioner highlights the benefits he 
received as the award winner, such as the cash prize and opportunity to work with a "winning 
conductor," and he points out that the contest has corporate backing from I I and national 
backing from Brazil's Ministry of Culture. However, while these factors indicate that there is value 
and distinction for the award winner, they are not sufficient evidence that the 
I IAward garnered national or international recognition. Because the Petitioner has not 
addressed the Director's concerns or provided sufficient evidence of his award's national or 
international recognition, he has not established that he met this criterion. 
Next, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), which pertains to membership in 
professional associations. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is or was a member 
in an association in his field, that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, 
and that this requirement is judged by national or international experts in the field. The Petitioner's 
claim concerning this criterion hinges on his membership in ABRAMUS ("Associacao Brasileira de 
Musica e Artes"), a copyright association, 0MB ("Ordem dos Musicos do Brasil"), a regulatory body 
for Brazilian musicians, and the Latin Recording Academy. The Director quoted portions of the 
ABRAMUS bylaws and discussed documents pertaining to 0MB members and determined that 
neither contains evidence indicating that outstanding achievement is required of its members. 
Likewise, after reviewing a letter from a voting member of the Latin Recording Academy and the 
conditions for membership, the Director determined that requiring prospective members to be involved 
in the Latin music industry and to have a certain number of releases is not sufficient to establish that 
outstanding achievement is a prerequisite for attaining a voting membership in the academy. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses all three memberships. First, he highlights ABRAMUS's "role in 
protecting the rights of artists" and its "dedication to promoting value and representing the interests of 
its members through effective copyright." He then points out that the Latin Recording Academy is a 
"prestigious organization" that is internationally recognized for producing the Latin Grammy Awards 
and claims that "[t]he criteria for becoming a voting member include the demonstration of 
extraordinary abilities." The Petitioner does not, however, specify what those "extraordinary abilities" 
are or point to evidence, such as the organization's bylaws, that supports his claim. As acknowledged 
by the Director, the Latin Recording Academy's voting member requirements, which are listed on a 
printout from the organization's website, include a certain number ofreleased singles. The Petitioner 
has not provided evidence that meeting this requirement connotes "extraordinary abilities" or 
outstanding achievements, the latter of which is an element of the criterion in question. Further, the 
Petitioner's reliance on support letters from two "respected figures in the music industry" is misplaced 
as neither individual's praise of the Petitioner's "talent and professionalism" nor vague references to 
the "rigorous criteria" for membership and "critical role of the academy" constitutes sufficient 
evidence that the Latin Recording Academy's voting membership is conditional upon a showing of 
the prospective member's outstanding achievements. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established 
that he satisfied the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) through his membership in ABRAMUS, 
0MB, or in the Latin Recording Academy. 
Next, the criterion to be discussed, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), requires evidence ofpublished material, 
which "shall include the title, date, and author of the material," about the Petitioner and his work and 
was published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
In the denial, the Director identified a total of 31 articles, including one from RollingStone Brasil, that 
could not be considered because they lacked a required regulatory element, such as a title, date, or 
author. Although the Director considered the Petitioner's claim that articles are often authored by 
editorial boards or groups of staff writers, she explained that an author and date are both required, not 
optional elements for meeting this criterion, and she pointed out that the media outlets' specific staff 
writers were not identified. The Director went on to address submitted screenshots from the Globo 
Television Channel, pointing out that they do not include discussions about the Petitioner or his work, 
but rather they only referenced him or included his photograph. The Director also listed seven articles 
sourced from the online publication No Treble, finding that the write-ups consisted of primarily short 
introductions of the music and band members and did not discuss the Petitioner or his work. The 
Director then listed four Y ouTube videos from Sesc Brasil, observing that all four appear to be guitar 
lessons and programs rather than published material about the Petitioner. And lastly, the Director 
acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of certain viewer metrics, such as the number of No Treble 
"sessions" that were viewed in a 12-year period and statistics from semrush.com about two of the 
publications. However, the Director pointed to the lack of context for the submitted metrics and 
determined that they did not offer a meaningful way of gauging whether something is a professional 
or major trade publication or other major media. The Director also commented on the lack of 
circulation statistics for three other publications -Viver&, Segs, and Recanto Adormecido -and 
further noted a lack of information about the intended audience. In sum, the Director determined that 
the Petitioner did not provide any submissions that fully met this criterion. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that his "media presence is extensive" and that his talents "have been 
recognized in well-known publications." He then specifies three online magazines -Bass Player 
Magazine, No Treble, and Sea of Tranquility -which he claims are "esteemed information outlets 
within the music community" and are "celebrated for their thorough and influential contributions to 
the music industry," but he does not point to evidence in the record that specifically addresses the 
considerable deficiencies listed in the denial. And although the Petitioner underscores that he was 
featured "in credible and well-regarded media platforms," we disagree with his reasoning, which relies 
primarily on the perceived reputation of the publications to the exclusion of adequate consideration of 
the specific regulatory requirements pertaining to this criterion. In fact, the Petitioner did not address 
any of the deficiencies catalogued at length in the denial, where the Director explained in detail how 
the Petitioner's submissions fell short of meeting this criterion, such as lack of adequate viewership 
metrics or the absence of an article's date or author. As such, the Petitioner has not overcome the 
adverse determination regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
We now tum to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), which requires evidence of the Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major trade journals or other major media. The 
Director found that while the evidence shows that the Petitioner worked with the magazine 
the transcribed musical composition and corresponding Petitioner biography submitted as 
supporting evidence does not show that the Petitioner actually authored any articles. Nor does the 
evidence show that the published material was scholarly and that I where the material was 
published, can be deemed a professional or major trade journal. And because the Director found that 
the Petitioner did not provide circulation statistics or other circulation data, she determined that there 
was insufficient evidence that I I falls within the category of major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he submitted evidence from I I website, which lists 
him as "a contributor" and states that his "association with" the online publication "further emphasizes 
[his] standing as a noteworthy figure in the field." He also contends that his collaboration with I I 
I "suggests that his work is both substantial and influential." However, the factors that the 
Petitioner highlights are not in question, nor are they relevant for the purpose of meeting the 
requirements of this criterion. As a threshold matter, the Petitioner claims that he has contributed and 
collaborated with I I but he does not claim or provide evidence that he was the author of 
any articles. As all elements of a criterion must be met to satisfy a criterion, the determination that 
the Petitioner did not author any articles is alone sufficient to preclude him from satisfying the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). That said, the Director went on to conclude thatl ldoes not 
qualify as major media, pointing to the lack of supporting evidence, such asl circulation 
statistics or other comparative circulation data. Regardless, because the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence to establish published articles, he has not met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and 
he has not overcome the Director's adverse determination with regard thereto. 
Next, we will discuss the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence that the 
Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization. In addressing this 
criterion, the Director listed five recommendation letters from individuals who discussed the 
Petitioner's endorsement and promotion of their respective products. The Director discussed the 
contents of each letter, quoting certain statements made by each individual about the Petitioner's role 
with respect to their products. The Director acknowledged that while each individual is 
5 
I complementary of the Petitioner's musical talent and marketing work, no one provided details 
explaining how his role was leading or critical within their respective organizations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner addresses three of the previously provided recommendation letters. He 
asserts that in one letter, the CEO of I stated that the Petitioner made "critical contributions" 
that impacted the company's product development and marketing strategies and that by offering clinics 
and demonstrations at industry events he had a "pivotal role in promoting and refining the company's 
offerings." The Petitioner also discusses the letter froml lwhich he claims "reinforces [his] 
significance as a top-level bass player for and the letter froml 
which he claims "highlights [his] engagement since 2020 as an 
endorsed artist who has been instrumental in their marketing campaigns and product demonstrations 
worldwide." While these recommendation letters show that the Petitioner benefited the organizations 
whose products he endorsed and promoted, they lack detailed and probative information that 
specifically addresses how the Petitioner's contributions were of significant importance to the 
organization. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual, F.2(8)(1), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The 
Petitioner therefore has not established that his role in any ofthe noted organizations was either leading 
or critical. 
Lastly, we will address the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). As noted by the Director, this 
criterion focuses on sales volume and box office receipts as a measure of commercial success, which 
is the key element of this criterion. Although the Director acknowledged the submission of evidence, 
such as Paypal payments and Hotmart sales reports, she found that the total revenue balances sourced 
from these platforms did not offer context to determine that the generated funds reflect commercial 
success as contemplated by this criterion. The Director also determined that evidence from the website 
MyEduzz, which shows that the Petitioner generated revenue from giving courses in bass, is distinct 
from evidence ofrevenue generated from audio or video sales and does not reflect commercial success 
sufficient to meet this criterion. And while the Director acknowledged evidence of the Petitioner's 
followers on various social media platforms such as Tnstagram, as well as streams and videos on 
streaming and viewing platforms like Spotify and Y ouTube, she determined that without a basis for 
comparison such evidence has limited evidentiary weight; she further noted that the Petitioner has not 
established that a certain number of streams or views is adequate to gauge commercial success, nor 
did he offer evidence showing that his presence on these platforms resulted in a volume of sales 
reflecting commercial success as compared to other musicians. 
On appeal, the Petitioner underscores the number of views he received on Y ouTube, asserting that 
"900,000 views ... demonstrate[es] substantial listener engagement and popularity." We find, 
however, that while listener engagement and popularity may lead to commercial success, these factors 
in and of themselves are not conclusive evidence thereof. The Petitioner also highlights his "ability 
to mobilize his audience for philanthropic efforts," pointing out that he performed at a charity 
fundraising event that resulted in BRL $1,239,000. However, despite the Petitioner's performance 
being a likely contributing factor in raising these funds, nothing shows that his performance, to the 
exclusion of other factors, such as the philanthropic cause itself, was solely responsible for the funds 
that were generated. In other words, the funds generated for a charitable cause cannot be solely 
attributed to the Petitioner's performance and thus the funds are not sufficient evidence of his 
commercial success. 
6 
We further note that the Petitioner continues to highlight earnings he made from selling his bass 
courses, despite the Director's finding that funds generated from sales of his music, rather than those 
derived from lessons, are reflective ofcommercial success. In addition, the Petitioner points to courses 
he developed between May 2023 and February 2024, thus assigning evidentiary value to events that 
occurred after this petition's March 2023 filing date and therefore would not be sufficient to establish 
eligibility at the time of filing. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
In light of the deficiencies described above, the Petitioner has not established that he has satisfied the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Given the deficiencies described above regarding six of the eight claimed criteria, we need not 
determine whether the Petitioner meets the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
and we will reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25-26. 
In sum, the Petitioner has not shown that he met either a one-time award, or three of ten initial criteria. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCTS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 26, 2024 In Re: 34673704 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur, inventor, and scientist, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. The Director further 
determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his required intent to continue working in the United 
States in his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur , inventor, and scientist in the field of information and communication 
technology. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner only satisfied one criterion related to judging at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the plain language 
requirements of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (iii), (v), (viii), and (ix) related to 
lesser awards, published materials, original contributions, leading or critical role, and high salary, and 
asserts that the Director did not fully evaluate the abundance of evidence submitted in support of his 
eligibility under these criteria. 
Upon review, the language in the Director' s decision regarding the evidentiary criteria discussed 
above, specifically with regard to the criteria relating to published materials and high salary, was 
copied almost verbatim from the Director' s request for evidence (RFE). Although the Director briefly 
quotes letters of support submitted by the Petitioner in analyzing his eligibility under the criteria 
pertaining to original contributions and leading or critical role, there is no specific discussion of the 
evidence submitted in support of his eligibility under the five claimed criteria nor is there an 
explanation for the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not satisfied any of these criteria. 
Moreover, the analysis does not reflect the Director's consideration of the Petitioner's claims and 
evidence submitted in response to the RFE with respect to these five criteria. 
Given the amount and type of evidence submitted in support of the Petitioner's eligibility under the 
five claimed criteria, both initially and in response to the RFE, we find the Director's brief analysis 
did not adequately inform the Petitioner of the reasons for concluding that he did not satisfy these five 
criteria. Moreover, we note that the Director's analysis pertaining to the Petitioner's intent to continue 
working in his field in the United States is copied virtually verbatim from the RFE, thereby indicating 
2 
that the Director did not adequately discuss the Petitioner's evidence as it pertains to this issue or 
sufficiently explain the basis for this determination. 
An officer's written decision must fully explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the 
respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the 
Director's decision does not specifically address the evidence submitted with the petition or in 
response to the RFE with respect to the criteria noted above, we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. The Director should also review the Petitioner's 
appellate brief, which further discusses the previously submitted evidence submitted in support of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as his intention to continue working is his claimed 
field ofextraordinary ability pursuant to Section 203(b )( 1 )(A )(ii) ofthe Act. Ifthe Director determines 
that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the new decision should 
evaluate, based on the totality of the evidence in the record, whether he has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of the 
small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5856469 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 27. 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chiropractor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets at least three of the ten criteria and is eligible for the 
benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a chiropractor who has practiced in Australia, Singapore and the United States. She 
received her bachelor of applied science in chiro ractic from the Institute of 
Technology and her doctor of chiropractic from th~------~University of Health Sciences, 
.__ ____ _.I College of Chiropractic. The record reflects that she completed additional certifications 
in an alternative chiropractic technique called Network Spinal Analysis (NSA) which relies on a light 
touch method to improve release tension in the spine and correct misalignments. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
relating to published material and performing in leading or critical role. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to 
original contributions of major significance in the field and commanding a high salary or other 
remuneration. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not met 
at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which class[fication is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree and will 
withdraw that finding. The record contains published articles about the Petitioner and her work in the 
field, but the submitted evidence is insufficient to establish that any of the submitted articles appeared 
in professional publications, major trade publications, or other major media. 
2 
Specifically, the Petitioner provided copies of articles published in various Singaporean publications, 
including The Business Times, Expat Living, EX Magazine, The Executive, SHAPE Singapore, 
Extraordinary Lives Magazine, and the online publication Honeycombers. 
The article that appeared in SHAPE magazine did not mention the Petitioner's name and does not 
identify an author. Rather, the short article rea~romotional piece tori l the 
Petitioner's business in Singapore. It notes thatL__J uses the NSA technique described above, 
briefly explains the technique, and provides the center's prices and website information. Articles that 
are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-
CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show 
are not about the actor).1 While the other submitted articles are about the Petitioner and her work, 
her initial submission did not include objective evidence to support her claim that any of these 
publications are professional publications, major trade publications, or major media. 2 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted additional evidence intended to establish 
that The Business Times and Expat Living publications are considered major media in Singapore. 3 
With respect to The Business Times, which published an article about the Petitioner titled 1 ~ I I I' in I I 2005, the Petitioner provided a letter from its publisher, Singapore Press Holdings 
(SPH). According to its head librarian, SPH is Singapore's "biggest media company" and "The 
Business Times is a Major Media in Singapore" with daily circulation of over 31,000 copies in 2005. 
The Petitioner also submitted an excerpt from SPH's annual report confirming the 2005 circulation 
figure in a graph that provides the circulation figures for all 17 of the company's daily publications. 
Comparing the circulation of The Business Times to the others, we note that its circulation figures were 
lower than those of 14 other SPH publications. This evidence does not appear to support the 
publication's own claim that The Business Times qualifies as major media in Singapore. For example, 
two daily newspapers published by SPH -The Straits Times and The Sunday Times -had circulation 
figures of over 385,000, while eight others had figures well over 100,000 copies. The Petitioner also 
provided a screenshot from The Business Times website showing that the 2005 article remains 
accessible online, but did not provide evidence of the websites' circulation statistics. 
The Petitioner also submitted partial copies of audit reports published by the Audit Bureau of Media 
Consumption of Singapore Ptd. Ltd. (ABC) for the years 2014 to 2017. While this evidence shows 
that The Business Times was among the daily publications monitored by ABC, the figures reported do 
not establish that its circulation is high in comparison to other daily newspapers in Singapore. 
Accordingly, the evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim that "[t]he Business Times is 
equivalent to the (New York Times?) as the Major Business Media of Singapore" or her claim that it 
is Singapore's sole financial and business news publication. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that the published material should be about 
the petitioner relating to his or her work in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization with whom 
he or she is associated). 
2 Id. (stating that evidence of published material in professional or major trade publication or in other major media 
publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and 
show the intended audience of the publication). 
3 The Petitioner did not submit further evidence regarding the other publications that have printed articles about her and 
her work in support of a claim that they are professional publications, major trade publications or other major media. 
3 
The record reflects that Expat Living, which the Petitioner describes as a "monthly lifestyle magazine 
and distinguished resource" created for the expat community in Singapore, has published several 
articles about the Petitioner and her chiropractic practice. The Petitioner states it is "one of the few 
media in Singapore that are audited" by ABC, noting that it has "average net circulation" of over 
16,000 copies. In addition, the Petitioner indicated that Expat Living has 75,000 monthly print readers 
and 300,000 readers online. The 16,471 copy circulation figure is supported by published data from 
ABC, but the Petitioner did not submit sufficient comparative information to establish that the 
magazine is considered major media in Singapore. The Petitioner submitted a very brief excerpt of an 
ABC report in which only Expat Living and one other publication appear and therefore it does not 
establish that magazine's relative standing among Singaporean print media. Further, the record does 
not include corroborating evidence supporting the figures the Petitioner submitted for monthly print 
and online readers. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that her evidence fulfills the evidentiary requirements, we 
withdraw the Director's determination that she met this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has she made original contributions 
but that they have been of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Major 
significance in the field may be shown through evidence that her original contributions have been 
widely accepted and implemented in her field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 4 
The Petitioner asserts that she has "pioneered a dramatically different, and dramatically effective, 
method of providing chiropractic care," which offers "unique benefits" that "help people significantly 
advance their physical, intellectual and emotional state." The Petitioner's evidence includes "before 
and after" photographs of her patients, patient testimonial letters, 5 and a sampling of questionnaires 
completed by her patients. 
While the publ~aterials and other evidence in the record reflects that the Petitioner relies on the 
non-traditional L_J or 1 ~ chiropractic method, the record does not support a finding that 
she pioneered or significantly advanced this technique. Rather, the evidence reflects that she 
completed three levels of training and certification in the method, and applied it to her own practice 
in Singapore. The submitted evidence indicates that the method has been a success for her individual 
patients, and suggests that it may not be widely used in Singapore. However, the Petitioner has not 
established how she has made an original contribution to the chiropractic field by using the existing I I method in her practice. 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that "an impressive range of experts are unanimous in their 
professional opinion that [she] has indeed made major original contributions to the field of chiropractic 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8-9. 
5 While we do not discuss every letter here, we have reviewed and considered all of the letters submitted in analyzing 
whether the Petitioner met this criterion. 
4 
care," we note that she did not submit any letters from experts in the chiropractic field explaining her 
original contributions or their major significance. She submitted letters from professionals from 
various industries who have been her patients and who can credibly comment on the impact she had 
on their personal health; none of the individuals who provide letters purport to have expert knowledge 
of the Petitioner's field. For example,I I an executive in an unrelated industry, asserts that 
after receiving the Petitioner's treatment, "the persistent tension in my neck and upper back ... was 
all but gone within a few weeks," and notes other benefits of her treatment. She also states that the 
Petitioner "stands out in her capacity to consistently produce results not normally seen by her peers," 
but it is unclear what on knowledge or experience this opinion is based. I I an 
entertainment industry executive, states that she was "struck by [the Petitioner's] extraordinary talent 
to effect powerful and positive change in my body and overall well being" and praises her "rare talent." I I a marketing communications executive, states that she is the Petitioner's long-time 
patient and praises the Petitioner's "specialized approach" noting its "unique and phenomenal" 
benefits that she has not been able to receive from other health care professionals. 
Letters from experts may add value if they specifically articulate how a petitioner's original contributions 
are of major significance and what impact they had on subsequent work, while letters that lack specifics 
and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 6 The letters submitted by the Petitioner commend her 
abilities as a chiropractor, establish the beneficial impact she has had on individual patents, and 
demonstrate that she has attracted some high profile clientele, but they are not from experts in her field 
and do not explain how she has made original contributions that have widely impacted the field. After 
review of the reference letters and other relevant evidence addressing the Petitioner's work as a 
chiropractor, the evidence in the record is insufficient to establish that she has made an original 
contribution in her field by offering the I I treatment technique to her patients. 
We have also considered evidence related to contributions the Petitioner has made through her 
charitable work. Specifically, the record reflects that she established~-------~to bring 
her treatment method to young victims of sex trafficking in Cambodia. The Petitioner provided 
evidence that, as a result of this work, she was awarded al 1 I A ward 
at the I I Summit in 2006. The evidence indicates that 
Petitioner's I I chiropractic meihod has been beneficial to this vulnerable population. 
However, absent evidence that her work with victims of abuse has made a wider impact on the 
chiropractic field beyond her own charitable foundation, the Petitioner has not established that she has 
made an original contribution of major significance. 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, the evidence in the record is insufficient to establish eligibility 
for this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. The record reflects that the 
Petitioner served in a leading role as the director and founder of I I in Singapore, and 
sufficient evidence to establish that her chiropractic center has a distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's finding that this criterion was met. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that she has 
earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar 
services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering 
a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted copies of invoices and evidence of payments 
from various clients to establish that she meets this criterion. However, the Director emphasized that 
she did not submit objective evidence, such as tax documents, demonstrating her actual pay or 
remuneration for any given period of time in support of her claim that she had "commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration." 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence of payments received from individual clients, 
including copies of invoices, bank statements. She also includes letters from clients, who confirm the 
amount they pay the Petitioner for each session and state that her rate per session is significantly higher 
than that of other chiropractors. However, the Petitioner has not supplemented the record with 
evidence of the actual salary or other remuneration that she has commanded for her services, such as 
tax documents corroborating her earnings in any given year. 
Therefore w1le the Petitioner has submitted comparative hourly and annual salary information for I ased chiropractors from various reliable sources, she did not provide the information 
needed to compare this information to evidence that she has commanded a high salary in the past. 
Rather, the Petitioner has extrapolated her expected weekly, monthly, and annual remuneration in the 
United States, based on her price per session, anticipated number of clients, and the number of 
expected sessions per client. While this evidence indicates that she has the potential to earn a high 
salary, it does not meet the requirements for this criterion, which requires us to look at her past 
earnings. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit 
have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(l). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
6 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 12331963 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a stage actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
After graduating from thq_~----,----~ITheatre and Film Institute, the Petitioner has appeared in several 
I I theatrical productions. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet any of the evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she meets all five of the previously claimed criteria, and that the Director 
imposed arbitrary or unduly restrictive conditions on those criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has met at least three 
criteria, numbered (i), (iii), and (iv). Therefore, rather than discuss the specific requirements of the 
evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has had some degree of success in the I I theater 
community, through which she has satisfied the letter of at least three of the regulatol criteria. The 
Petitioner, however, has not demonstrated that a successful career in theater inl translates into 
the national or international acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner has won awards from the Association of Latin Entertainment Critics._! ____ _,I and the 
Hispanic Organization of Latin Actors, and she participated, both as an artist and as a juf ge, at the Festival I l" described by its founder as "the showcase for Latino Actors in f' The 
Petitioner has not established that these achievements place her among the small percentage at the very 
top of her field. Awards, festivals, and theater companies occupy many different levels within the field 
of live theater, and therefore information about these things carries little weight in the absence of wider 
context. Eligibility rests upon objective comparison between the Petitioner's accomplishments and those 
of others in the field, and the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence in this regard. 
The statute demands national or international acclaim; the regulations require individuals to have risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. The record, as a whole, provides a limited basis for assessing 
the Petitioner's achievements and recognition in the required national or international context. For 
instance, the artistic directors of two I I theater companies assert that the Petitioner is a critical 
member of their theater companies. Both companies have mounted award-winning productions, but the 
record does not provide an adequate basis of comparison to show that the number or prestige of these 
awards sets them apart from, and above, other theater companies. Likewise, the Petitioner has established 
local media coverage of the two theater groups, but has not established that the nature or extent of that 
coverage distinguishes them from other groups. 
The Petitioner has established major media coverage in her own right, but this coverage amounts to 
articles in Mexican newspapers discussing the Petitioner's work in the United States. The Petitioner has 
shown neither that she was a prominent actress in Mexico, nor that her work in the United States has 
earned significant coverage in major U.S. media. The articles in the record emphasize that the Petitioner 
is from Mexico, the implication being that she warrants coverage in Mexico by virtue of being a Mexican 
who has enjoyed some degree of attention inl I The Petitioner has not shown that, overall, her 
media coverage has been commensurate with that of top U.S. stage actors. 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
The Petitioner has established a presence in the I I theatrical community, but the evidence 
submitted does not rise to the level of establishing sustained national or international acclaim as an actor 
at the very top of her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that she has earned sustained national or 
international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). A viable career in a competitive field of endeavor is not commensurate 
with sustained acclaim. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12331969 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a percussionist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has accompanied Venezuelan artists such a~ 11 
an~ I in the recording studio and in live performances, some of them televise~d_---~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met five criteria, and to have submitted 
comparable evidence relating to a sixth, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the first evidentiary criterion, relating to prizes or 
awards. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criteria. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude, for the reasons discussed below, 
that it does not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The record contains evidence regarding various awards and nominations. The Director granted this 
criterion without specifying which award or awards were found to meet the requirements. Upon review 
of the record, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion. 
The Petitioner performed on three albums ( one b~ I two byl h that were nominated for 
Latin Grammy Awards in various "best album" categories. (The Petitioner does not claim that the 
nominated albums won the awards.) Translated certificates from the Latin Academy of Recording Arts 
and Sciences (LARAS) show the Petitioner's name "in recognition of his participation" on the recordings, 
but do not indicate that the Petitioner himself was actually nominated for the awards. Album credits and 
letters in the record indicate that the Petitioner was a guest musician who played on one song on each of 
the nominated albums. Acknowledgment of participation as a guest on a nominated album is not a prize 
or award. 
The Petitioner is the named winner of an award from the Mara de Oro de Venezuela Foundation. The 
president of that organization states that award winners are chosen "according to the results of surveys 
conducted" among "the people o±i lin Venezuela. A printout from the foundation's website 
indicates that the award was created "in order to highlight the best of the best of the city I I 
These statements indicate a local-level award. 
The Petitioner submits information about the "Mara International Prize," which does not appear to be the 
same as the Mara de Oro prize. Information about the Mara International Prize identifies its founder as 
Maria Laya. The founder of the Mara de Oro de Venezuela Foundation was Guillermo Sanchez Garcia. 
Furthermore, the record provides different years for the founding of the two organizations. The submitted 
evidence, therefore, appears to relate to two different organizations and two different prizes. 
The Petitioner has not established that the award from the Mara de Oro Foundation is nationally or 
internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner submits information about thel !orchid Festival, and a photograph of the 
Petitioner holding a photograph of a trophy. An anonymous, handwritten annotation on the photograph 
indicates that the Petitioner "won the highest prize of the event," but the accompanying documentation 
does not corroborate this claim. The submitted photograph is not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner 
won the award. 
The musical dutj I presented the Petitioner with an "award of recognition ... for 5 years 
of outstanding work as a part of this great musical family." The record indicates thatl lare 
a successful musical act, but it does not follow that awards which they present to their supporting 
musicians are nationally or internationally recognized. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
3 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner has signed endorsement deals with manufacturers of musical instruments and related 
supplies. The Petitioner contends that these arrangements amount to "endorsement associations where 
top musicians are selected for membership." The Petitioner, however, has not shown that the participants 
constitute "associations in the field," or that recognized national or international experts are responsible 
for selecting endorsers. The endorsement is, instead, a business transaction in which a musician agrees 
to use and promote a company's products in exchange for consideration from that company. An official 
of one of the manufacturers refers to the arrangement not as an association, but as a "sponsorship 
program." The record also refers to the endorsement deals as "commercial contracts." 
We agree with the Director that an endorsement contract is not membership in an association. 
Regarding his voting membership in LARAS, the Petitioner states that applicants must "meet stringent 
requirements," but the LARAS bylaws, in the record, state only that "Each Voting Member ... must be 
an active participant in the Latin recording industry." Active participation in the industry is not 
intrinsically an outstanding achievement, and the bylaws do not indicate that recognized national or 
international experts judge the achievements of applicants for membership. 
The Petitioner has not established that voting membership in LARAS requires outstanding achievements 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
Citing the "comparable evidence" provision at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), the Petitioner documents several 
concert and television performances byl I and asserts that his "headlining of world tours 
in front of millions of audience members is comparable to a traditional artist's display of their work at a 
gallery or museum." It can be debated whether the chief purpose of these performances was for 
entertainment rather than artistic, but that discussion is unnecessary because of a more fundamental issue. 
Notwithstanding his use of the term "headlining," the Petitioner was not the featured performer; he was 
one of several musicians providing instrumental support fo~ I Audiences would have seen 
and heard his performances, along with the other musicians, but they would have also seen the work of 
the costume designers, lighting designers, carpenters, and the manufacturers of the instruments, 
microphones, and loudspeakers. But all of these contributions, both musical and non-musical, were in 
service and support of the performances by the artists named on the tickets and promotional materials. 
The Petitioner's presence onstage as a supporting musician during performances byl land 
other headlining artists does not amount to display of the Petitioner's work, or comparable evidence 
thereof 
4 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner is credited as a session musician on recordings by several Venezuelan recording artists. 
The Petitioner submits chart data showing that these recordings sold well, but the recordings were not 
sold under his name. The submitted credits show that many other musicians likewise participated in the 
recording sessions, sometimes ten or more on a given track. We note that chart data forl I 
includes a recording credited to j I The Petitioner's name is not 
highlighted or featured in this way. 
The Petitioner has performed, as a guest musician, on commercially successful recordings, but he has not 
established that he has achieved commercial success as a result. The Petitioner contends that his 
performances contributed to the success of the recordings and concerts, stating, for instance, that his 
"performance od I ultimately led the song to sell over 120,000 records" and reach the top 
of a Venezuelan record chart. The burden is on the Petitioner to show that he has achieved commercial 
success as a performing artist, which is not the same as performing on other artists' commercially 
successful recordings. In letters in the record, the recording artists themselves contend that the 
Petitioner's performances are responsible for the records' success, but the record does not support these 
statements. The record does not show, for instance, that the artists' recordings with the Petitioner 
consistently outsold their other recordings. 
The Petitioner claims to have met six of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Because he 
did not meet the above four, detailed discussion of the two remaining criteria cannot change the 
outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues relating to published material 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and participation as a judge under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv).1 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or who have worked 
with individuals at the top. Here, while the Petitioner has worked with acclaimed artists, he has not 
shown that he himself has earned the required sustained national or international acclaim or established 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12509637 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a personal fitness trainer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that she "is among the very best in the world at training celebrities with normal 
physiques and transforming their bodies to appear as finely tuned athletes for major motion picture 
production. In this endeavor, her list of clients and accomplishments is truly among the very best in the 
world." The Petitioner claims an "extensive list of I !celebrity clients" in "multiple motions 
[sic] pictures," but does not Jrovide any such list, and she identifies only one film project. She helped to 
train actorl for her role inl I a motion picture released shortly 
before the petition's filing date in December 2019.1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). At various times, the Petitioner has claimed to meet eight criteria, 
summarized below, either directly or through comparable evidence: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
1 The Petitioner entered the United States in 2015 as an F-1 nonimmigrant student, a classification that generally does not permit 
employment in the United States. In an April 2019 interview in the record, the Petitioner states that she had already "finished 
school" at the time of the interview. Nevertheless, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records do not show 
any change of nonimmigrant status or grant of employment authorization; record evidence from November 2019, less than six 
weeks before the filing date, shows that the Petitioner re-entered the United States, still as an F-1 nonimmigrant student. 
2 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the fourth numbered criterion, relating to 
participation as a judge. We will not disturb this determination. 2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
she also meets the other claimed evidentiary criteria. 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and conclude, as discussed below, that it does not 
show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner won medals at the 20191 I Classic, a competition held by the National Physique 
Committee (NPC). The Petitioner states: "The NPC is the world's largest physique competition, with 
competitions all over the world." A sports journalist and promoter states that prominent bodybuilders 
have competed at NPC events. Whatever the NPC's reputation, the Petitioner does not establish that 
prizes from the I I Classic are nationally or internationally recognized. The journalist and 
promoter also states that the Petitioner "went on to finish an impressive ninth place at the 2019 I I ~--~I Championships," but ninth place is not a prize or award. The Petitioner has not submitted 
objective documentary evidence to establish the recognition of the prizes and awards she has received. 
Beyond the above issues, the Director also noted that "these awards were given for competition as a 
bodybuilder," not as a fitness trainer. The Petitioner does not address this very significant point on appeal. 
Awards for the Petitioner's development of her own physique do not amount to recognition of her 
achievements or abilities in terms of training others. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she was "a member of thel I organization," and that her various 
achievements ( described elsewhere in this decision) are, collectively, comparable to membership in a 
qualifying association. The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that her participation in 
these activities constituted membership in associations or met the other regulatory requirements. The 
Director also determined that the Petitioner did not show that the criterion does not readily apply to her 
occupation, such that she could claim comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 The Petitioner was one of three judges at a weightlifting competition inl !California, inl 12019. We agree 
with the Director that this activity facially satisfies the language of the criterion. Had the case reached a final merits 
determination, we would have considered the evidence, or lack thereof: concerning the significance of the event. 
3 
On appeal, counsel for the Petitioner maintains that she "was selected to be a member of the association 
which produced.__ _______________ ____. due to the judgement of recognized 
experts in the fitness and film industry" ( emphasis in the original). The unsupported assertions of counsel 
do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter 
of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). The Petitioner does not submit evidence to 
establish that a film production constitutes an association in the field of fitness training, or that nationally 
or internationally recognized experts in that field selected her to participate in the production. 
Furthermore, even if we were to conclude that the film production qualified as an association in her field, 
the Petitioner has not established that her membership was due to her outstanding achievements. She 
describes how she came to be associated with the film in an interview with VoyageLA, where she stated: 
I I I The record does not contain 
evidence demonstrating the events described by the Petitioner qualify as an outstanding achievement. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility for this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits material from three publications. The Petitioner claims that she "has been featured 
in Oxygen Magazine." The submitted issue of Oxygen includes a 12-page article about workout 
techniques. The Petitioner posed for photographs to illustrate the exercises, but her name does not appear 
in the article. Counsel for the Petitioner claims that she "was featured to demonstrate the exercises as she 
is a top personal trainer," but the record contains no evidence to support this claim. 
A two-paragraph biographical sketch of the Petitioner appears elsewhere in the issue, more than 40 pages 
away from the article described above. However, this column does not include the author credit required 
by the regulations and therefore cannot establish eligibility under this criterion. The Petitioner asserts 
that the magazine's editor in chief is the author of the biographical piece, but the editor's name is not on 
the page with the sketch. Furthermore, this short piece does not describe the Petitioner as "a top personal 
trainer." It describes the Petitioner's participation in competitions, but does not indicate that she has any 
experience as a personal trainer or any plans to work in that field. The record does not establish that the 
Petitioner was chosen to model for photographs because "she is a top personal trainer." 
The Petitioner submits a screen print from the website of Men's Health, showing part of an article about 
how actorl !trained for.__ ________ __,The screen capture includes a frame of an 
accompanying video, showing the Petitioner with the actor ju a fitness center. In the complete video, 3 
the actor introduces the Petitioner, and she is intermittently seen standing beside him or acting as a spotter 
3 The video is available at https://www.menshealth.com (last visited '-----------------~ December 10, 2020). 
4 
as he performs and narrates various exercises, but she does not speak and the actor says nothing more 
about her after the one-sentence introduction, nor does he indicate that the Petitioner had taught him any 
of the exercises shown. The Petitioner's presence in the room while an actor demonstrates his own 
exercise regimen does not make the video published material about the Petitioner. The Petitioner does 
not establish that the accompanying written article mentions her. 
An interview with the Petitioner appeared in the I I category of the online publication 
VoyageLA. There is no author credit, as the regulations require. The article concludes with the 
Petitioner's own contact information. Furthermore, readership statistics from an unnamed website 
indicate that VoyageLA's website attracts "about 7,657 unique visitors ... per day." The Petitioner does 
not provide comparative figures to show that the site's view rate is consistent with major media. 
The articles submitted by the Petitioner do not meet the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
Under this criterion, the Petitioner submits letters from six individuals, all of whom participated in 
~-----------------------~ . Most of these individuals assert, in 
varying degrees of detail, that the Petitioner layed an important role in preparing some cast members for 
filming. Of the,;,:..se"'-'============---"'o""'n!c.Jl '-'o""n"'"e"-=h"""as"-=a-"-s1..,,· ""'n""'if~1,,,,,ca""'n""t""'r-"'e""u""'t,:,::a""ti""o""'n""'r-"'el~a"""ti""n""'--'t""o__.f""1t""'n""e""ss"""a""'n""d"" 
bod buildin . 
states: 
[The Petitioner's] unique style combines both the traditional and modem bodybuilding 
and fitness styles, along with special High Intensity Fitness Training (HIIT) [sic], which 
shocks the muscles and body to obtain fast results . 
. . . I am very impressed by [the Petitioner's] unique method ... where she combines the 
exercises and intervals to stretch and strengthen the muscles. It produces better gains than 
the conventional training techniques and is making and impact and contribution in the 
industry. As someone who has been involved in the fitness industry for more than five 
decades, it is my opinion that [the Petitioner] is a top national fitness trainer. 
[The Petitioner] is a hardworking and nationally acclaimed trainer. 
~--------------- credentials qualify him as an authority in the field, and add 
weight to his opinions. While his statement attests to the originality of her approach to training, it does 
not provide specific information to address the degree, if any, to which her work has impacted the field. 
Producer! lcalls the Petitioner "the best top trainer in the industry," while director! I 
states that the Petitioner "is the best personal trainer and the top in her field."I lstates that the 
Petitioner "has a unique training style that she developed by comb[in Jing various exercises and High 
5 
Intensity Training in a unique combination that provides explosive results. Her unique style represents 
the future of fitness training. She is truly the best trainer in the country." These rather general assertions 
do not suffice to establish that the Petitioner's training methods have already had a demonstrable impact 
and influence on the field. 
The Petitioner has not submitted documentation to establish that her work on film constitutes an original 
contribution of major significance to the field of fitness training. The letters are not primary evidence 
that the Petitioner has developed an influential new training regimen, or that her techniques have been 
widely used beyond the production of one film. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner states that "the physique that [she] created" for I I was displayed in 
.__ ________ ____, That motion picture, however, was not created or promoted as a showcase for 
the Petitioner's work as a fitness trainer. Rather, the Petitioner was hired in an ancillary role to prepare 
one of the actors in the cast. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In evaluating evidence offered under this criterion, we must examine whether the role is ( or was) 
leading or critical. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the alien has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A 
supporting role may be considered "critical" if the alien's performance in the role is ( or was) important 
in that way. 4 
The Petitioner claims to satisfy this criterion by training actors in.__ ________ _.The Petitioner 
does not establish that~~------~ris an organization or establishment in its own right. 
Whatever the reputation o .__ ______ _, which distributed the film in the ynited States, the 
Petitioner does not cite any evidence to show that her role was leading or critical fo lat the 
organizational level. 
The Petitioner asserts that "the physiques of the actors" were "a vital part of that production," and that, 
therefore, "without [the Petitioner's] expertise, the film could not have been made." In letters in the 
record, the film's director, producer, and cast members praise the Petitioner's participation, but they do 
not support the claim that "the film could not have been made" without her involvement. This argument 
is not persuasive. With respect to.__ _______ ____, the Petitioner has not shown her involvement 
in the film was critical. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 10 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
G 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
On appeal, the Petitioner states: 'The average trainer makes significantly less than [the Petitioner] .... 
[The Petitioner] is among the very best trainers in the world and the high cost of her services reflect[ s] 
that." The Petitioner does not provide any specific figures. The Petitioner's vague, unsupported, and 
untimely assertion has no weight in this proceeding. The purpose of an appeal is to identify erroneous 
conclusions oflaw or statements of fact in the underlying denial decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
The claim of high remuneration was never put before the Director, and therefore the Director cannot have 
erred by failing to consider that claim. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied at least three evidentiary criteria. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner claims 
to be among the top celebrity fitness trainers, apparently based on her work on one motion picture. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12589199 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 28, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a long-distance runner, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable material ifhe or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed in various marathons and other long-distance races since 2013, winning first 
place in the 20131 I Marathon; the 20141 !Marathon; and the 20181 I Marathon, 
among others. The Petitioner is in the United States in P-1 nonimmigrant status. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also asserted that "expert opinion letters" constituted comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)( 4). The Director disagreed, and the Petitioner does not pursue the claim on appeal. Therefore, 
we consider the argument to be abandoned.1 The letters will receive appropriate consideration below. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one evidentiary criterion, relating to prizes and awards. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other two claimed evidentiary criteria. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and, as explained below, we conclude that it does 
not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner received local newspaper coverage for winning races in Bermuda and in ~I--~ 
Pennsylvania. Some of the articles simply list the Petitioner among several other runners, but others 
include biographical information and otherwise focus on the Petitioner in particular. The article from 
Bermuda's Royal Gazette includes six sentences about the Petitioner and names him in a photograph 
caption. The Petitioner provides circulation statistics for some of these papers, showing that their websites 
receive between 1400 and 2900 unique visitors per day, but the Petitioner provides no basis for 
comparison to show that these figures qualify the publications as major media in their respective 
countries. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his eligibility for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner submits four letters from individuals involved with various running organizations. An 
official of I I Road Runners states that the Petitioner "has represented I I 
admirably against world-class competition in our events," "and his accomplishments as an athlete 
inspire many." Another official of that same organization states that the Petitioner's "Qassion for 
running is outdone only by [his] talent." The president of the I I Runners' Club inl I 
c=]details the Petitioner's performance in various competitions. None of the writers explains how 
winning or placing highly in a given race amounts to an original contribution of major significance in 
the field. 
The director of the Safety and Health Foundation states that the Petitioner's "accomplishments and 
athletic contributions" consist rimaril of winning various races. For example, the Petitioner was the 
youngest-ever winner of the1r-------,......JMarathon at age 23, with "the second fastest time in the history 
of the race"; and he won the~_~HalfMarathon with a record-breaking time of 1:05:04. 
Winning nationally or internationally significant races satisfies a separate criterion relating to prizes 
and awards. The existence of two separate criteria (one for prizes, one for contributions) demonstrates 
that neither implies the other. An athlete may, of course, win a prize or award as a result of an athletic 
contribution of major significance, but the burden is on the Petitioner to show that is the case. Here, 
the record does not contain evidence demonstrating that the Petitioner's racing wins have impacted 
the field of running in a way that could be characterized as having major significance. 
Neither the Petitioner nor the individuals writing on his behalf explain why, for instance, being the 
youngest winner ofthel I Marathon is an original athletic contribution of major significance 
3 
in the field. The Petitioner has not established how his record time at thel!Half Marathon 
compares to half marathons overall, or that his record is significant beyondc==J' 
The Petitioner states that "a long line of Federal court decisions" established that: "In athletics, evidence 
of the beneficiary's contributions may take the form of selection for an all-star team, selection to play on 
a national team in an international competition, rankings, or performance statistics." In the cited cases, 2 
the Court did not specifically refer to team membership, rankings, or performance statistics as athletic 
contributions of major significance. Rather, the Court referred to such achievements more generally 
as evidence of extraordinary ability. The cited cases predate the Kazarian decision and its two-step 
analysis which separates the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) from the issue of sustained acclaim. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he has made an original contribution of major 
significance to the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner lists dozens of races in which he has competed, and 
indicates that he won 11 of them. He has not provided a basis for comparison to show how he ranks 
among long-distance runners overall, rather than among only those who participated in the same races 
as he did. The media coverage documented in the record is limited to local newspaper coverage of 
area races, which does not indicate wider recognition or exposure. The evidence in the record shows 
some degree of success, but success is not the same as sustained national or international acclaim. 
2 Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965 (N.D. Ill. 1996); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995); and Racine v. INS, 
19995 WL 153319 (N.D. Ill. 1995). As district comt decisions, one of them unpublished, the cited decisions are not binding 
authority in this proceeding. We are not bound to follow the published decision of a U.S. district court in matters arising 
within the same district. Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). Although the reasoning underlying a district 
judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us, the analysis does not have to be followed 
as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23841303 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 28, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a juris doctorate tax consultant, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in business. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner meets any of the eligibility criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), that she is 
seeking to enter the United States to continue to work in her area of extraordinary ability, or that her 
area of extraordinary ability falls under one of the categories at section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner is a juris doctor tax consultant who indicates that she intends to continue this career in 
the United States. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner does not meet any of the criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets the following criteria: 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with a distinguished reputation. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her receipt of the Order of Barristers 
National Award and the President's Award Kenya. 
The record indicates that the Beneficiary was inducted into the Order of Barristers National Honor 
Society, rather than receiving an Order of Barristers National Award. As such, we will discuss her 
claims under the "membership" criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner's letter of support indicates that the President's Award Kenya was awarded for her 
community service and charitable advocacy. The record does not contain any supporting 
documentation about this award's selection criteria. As there is no indication that this is an award for 
excellence the field of law, it does not meet the plain language of this criterion, which requires the 
award or prize to be for excellence in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner has not established that she received lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes for excellence in her field of endeavor. Therefore, she does not meet this criterion. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion due to her membership in the Order of 
Barristers National Honor Society and in Pi Sigma Alpha, the National Political Science Honor 
Society. The Director determined that because these are academic honor societies restricted to 
students, they are not associations in the Petitioner's field that require outstanding achievements of 
their members. On appeal, the Petitioner disputes this conclusion and states that members of the legal 
profession can also gain membership in the Order of Barristers. 
The Petitioner's initial cover letter describes Pi Sigma Alpha as an honor society for students of the 
political and social sciences, rather than the Petitioner's field of endeavor, which is law. The letter 
from the executive director of Pi Sigma Alpha states that entry for undergraduate students requires the 
completion of a certain number of academic credits in political science, including at least one upper­
level course, with an average grade of B or above, as well as an overall grade point average that is in 
the top third of their class. Furthermore, the Pi Sigma Alpha website printout indicates that individual 
chapters of the society are not permitted to "impose any non-academic requirements" for entry and are 
"discouraged from imposing any requirement that involves subjective evaluation." Taking certain 
college courses and maintaining a certain grade point average are not extraordinary achievements 
judged by nationally or internationally experts in the field of law. The Petitioner's membership in Pi 
Sigma Alpha does not qualify for this criterion. 
Membership in Order of Barristers National Honor Society is similarly based on law school student 
achievement, honoring law students who excel in moot court activities. The support letter from the 
Order of Barristers states that the only mandatory requirement for membership is that the students 
participate in law school moot court programs or teaching programs for brief writing and/or oral 
advocacy. While the Petitioner states on appeal that membership in the Order of Barristers is not 
restricted to law students, she is seeking to qualify for this criterion based on her membership in the 
Order of Barristers National Honor Society, which is based on student achievements. The evidence 
does not establish that this society requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
The support letter from of the University ofl I College of Law states 
that students are nominated for membership in the Order of Barristers National Honor Society through 
a poll of third-year students, followed by an evaluation by faculty members. The letter is accompanied 
byl !faculty profile, which indicates that she has worked as a law school professor 
but does not indicate that she is a nationally or internationally recognized expert in the field of law or 
courtroom advocacy. This does not establish that the achievements of members of this society are 
judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the Petitioner's field. 
Because the record does not establish that Pi Sigma Alpha or the Order of Barristers National Honor 
Society require their members to have outstanding achievements in the field of law or that those 
achievements are judged by nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field of law, the 
Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on articles on the websites of her law 
school, a law firm, and Court News Ohio, as well as a county newspaper in Ohio. 
First, the articles provided are not about the Petitioner and her work in the field oflaw. For example, 
the article from Court News Ohio is about a bar admissions ceremony for 600 new attorneys in Ohio 
and quotes the Beneficiary as one member of this group. Similarly, the law firm article is a press 
release congratulating all of the winners of a competition for first-year law students, and the county 
newspaper article is an announcement of the winners of a scholarship. These are not published 
materials about the Petitioner and her work in her field. 
Second, while Court News Ohio, a service of the Supreme Court of Ohio, may be a professional 
publication in the field of law, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's law school website, 
the law firm website, or the county newspaper constitute professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. While the Petitioner's brief states that any website or newspaper available to the 
public is a "professional trade publication," she provides no documentation to support this claim. 
Given that posting information online for general public consumption is a standard practice for 
organizations such as universities, law firms, and newspapers, the Petitioner's interpretation of the 
regulation would render the "major media" requirement meaningless, and we decline to adopt it. The 
Petitioner has not submitted independent, objective evidence showing that these publications are 
"professional trade publications" or other major media. 1 
The Petitioner has not submitted published material in professional or trade publications or other major 
media which is about her work in the field oflaw. Therefore, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her role as for 
Human Rights Quarterly (HRQ), an academic journal in the field of international law, and as the I I for the Moot Court Honor Board at her law school. 
According to her briefs, the Petitioner conducted peer review of articles published at HRQ while acting 
as a staff member and later as itsl I However, the letter from . 
______ of HRQ, only states that she was "responsible for overseeing a law student staff of 
60." The HRQ website states that its student editorial staff acts as "articles editors," but does not 
indicate whether they perform peer review duties. This does not establish that the Petitioner conducted 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F .2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing Evidence, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual (stating that evidence of professional or major trade publications or other major 
media should establish a high viewership or readership as well as who the intended audience is). 
4 
peer review while working at HRQ or that her work there constituted a formal designation in a judging 
capacity.2 
Similarly, while the Petitioner states in her initial cover letter that she acted as a judge in moot court 
competitions while with the Moot Court Honor Board, the supporting documentation only states that 
members of the board organize, administrate, and compete in moot court competitions. 
The Petitioner has not established that she participated as a judge of the work others in the same or an 
allied field. She does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her article in the Immigration and 
Human Rights Law Review. 
To support her claim that her article constitutes an original contribution of major significance, the 
Petitioner provides website printouts from PlumX Metrics indicating that the article has been 
downloaded 1,338 times since it was published and has 1,766 "usage." The documentation provided 
does not explain what "usage" means in this context. The Petitioner also provides a printout from 
Google Scholar indicating that her article has been cited once. While a substantial number of citations 
of a person's scholarly work as authoritative in the field may help establish the significance of their 
contribution to their field, 3 one citation is not considered a substantial number. The evidence does not 
establish what influence or impact the Petitioner's article has had on her field. 
The Petitioner has not established that her article has been of major significance to her field. 
Therefore, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on an article she published in the 
Immigration and Human Rights Law Review. The Director found that she had not established that 
her article was actually published in a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that her previously-submitted evidence demonstrates her eligibility for 
this criterion. 
The record includes a copy of the Beneficiary's article, which indicates that it is scholarly in nature 
and that it was "accepted for inclusion in Immigration and Human Rights Law Review by an 
authorized editor at University of I I College of Law Scholarship and Publications." The 
documentation includes the volume and issue number and a recommended citation format for the 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing 
Evidence (stating that peer review in a scholarly journal may be evidenced by a request from the journal for such a review 
as well as proof that the review was completed). 
3 Id. 
5 
article. We therefore find that the Beneficiary published her article in a professional publication and 
withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. 
However, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in the plural. Because the Petitioner has only published 
one scholarly article, she does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner states that she qualifies for this criterion based on her role as at 
HRQ. However, the evidence does not contain sufficient information about this position or its duties 
to establish that she led HRQ or a department or division of it or that her role was significantly 
important to the outcome ofHRQ's activities.4 
According to the letter of support froml I the Petitioner's role at the journal consisted 
of "overseeing a student staff of 60." While the letter states that selecting an exceptional I I I I is "critical" for the journal, it does not provide further information about the Petitioner's duties, 
her place in the journal's overall organizational structure, or how her role was significant to the 
journal's outcomes. We further note that the information provided about this journal by its publisher, I I University, indicates that its editor-in-chief is _____ and does not mention 
the Beneficiary or her position as It It is not apparent from this evidence how the 
Petitioner's role for HRQ was leading or critical. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that HRQ is an organization with a distinguished 
reputation. The Google Scholar printout provided with the initial evidence states that HRQ is ranked 
10th of 20 existing journals in the field of international law. While the printout from the publisher's 
website states that HRQ is "widely recognized as the leader in the field of human rights," an 
organization's recognition and reputation come from how it is seen by others. Therefore, a 
publication's assertions do not suffice to demonstrate its reputation in the field. The record does not 
establish that HRQ has a distinguished reputation. 
Finally, the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires the Petitioner to 
perform in a leading or critical role for "organizations or establishments" in the plural. The Petitioner 
here has only submitted evidence relating to one organization, and so does not meet this criterion. 
B. Other Issues in the Director's Denial 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not established that she either has a one-time achievement or 
meets at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Since this issue is dispositive of the 
appeal, we decline to reach and hereby reserve the Director's determinations that the Petitioner's area 
of extraordinary ability does not fall within the scope of section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and that 
she is not seeking to enter the United States to continue to work in this area. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F .2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First Step of Reviewing 
Evidence. 
6 
429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision 
of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise 
ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination described in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, determining that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted documentation of her achievements in 
college and law school but has not demonstrated that these achievements have translated into a level 
of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19961825 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 29, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a doctoral student and teaching assistant, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability in the field of mathematics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of this immigrant visa classification 
through evidence meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or showing that he 
received a major, internationally-recognized award. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently a doctoral student and teaching assistant at the University ofl I I I and has stated that he intends to pursue a teaching career at this or another institution. He holds 
a master of science degree in mathematics fromc=]and another from the I I 
University of Russia. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the 
three evidentiary criteria discussed below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find 
that he does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement for the requested classification. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
As evidence of meeting the requirements of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted reference letters 
describing his activities as a teaching assistant and student mentor aO ~--------~ 
the Petitioner's current advisor, states that the Petitioner mentors several undergraduate students, 
which he describes as "beyond the call of duty" and "an indication of [the Petitioner's] commitment 
to mentoring, teaching, and developin as a leader." Further details of the mentorship program in 
which the Petitioner participates, th...__ ____ __,..-----~-~---------' are provided 
b~ la fellow doctoral candidate at He notes that mentors and students spend several 
hours per week in researching an area of math, and that at the end of each academic quarter the students 
in the program give presentations. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the presentations are a "competition-like element" of thd 
program, and that they are evaluated by a panel. However, neither the letter from I I or the 
information from thel ~ebpage in the record mention these evaluation panels described by the 
Petitioner, nor is there any indication that he served on such a panel. In addition, this evidence does 
not support the Petitioner's assertion that his mentoring of students in the I I program involves 
judging the work of others in the field. The information froml I describes the program as a 
quarter-long reading project in which undergraduate student mentees meet with the graduate student 
mentors on a weekly basis to discuss readings. While his mentoring activity is not part of the 
Petitioner's duties as a teaching assistant, the evidence does not demonstrate that it involves judging 
of the work of others in the field. We therefore agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner 
does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In his decision, the Director stated that the Petitioner's papers inl lcould not be considered to have 
been published in professional or major trade publications or other major media, nor could unpublished 
conference papers. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to consider the evidence 
of his publications in Russian journals, as well as a textbook "used by hundreds of students." He notes 
that these journals include Inverse Problems, Differential Equations, and SIAM Journal on Control 
and Optimization. While the evidence shows that the Petitioner authored an article which was 
published in Inverse Problems inl I 2015, there is no evidence of the publication of his work 
in the other two publications claimed. We further note the evidence shows that abstracts of papers 
presented by the Petitioner at several conferences were published in the proceedings of those 
conferences. As such, we disagree with the Director and find that the Petitioner has established that 
he meets this criterion. 
II. CONCLUSION 
We conclude that the Petitioner meets the criterion relating to his authorship of scholarly articles, but 
does not satisfy the criterion regarding his service as a judge of the work of others. Although he also 
claims to meet an additional criterion relating to original scientific contributions of major significance, 
we need not reach this additional claim. Because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement for this classification by meeting at least three of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
we reserve this issue. 1 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 ( 1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 T&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 29, 2023 In Re: 28964376 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive and cybersecurity professional, seeks classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen' s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that a beneficiary meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner establishes these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner avers the Beneficiary is a business leader with experience in the fields of business and 
science, specifically in the field of cyber security. It discussed the specific niche occupied by the 
Beneficiary within these two realms as follows in its response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE): 
[The Beneficiary] is a prolific writer and speaker on the topic of cybersecurity for 
business. His work in this area encompasses several facets of the field: Developing 
strategies for chief information security officers (CISO) and other IT and cyber­
responsible parties on how to set up their business IT systems to be the most protected 
from cyber threats; identifying and translating the techniques used by hackers to that 
CISOs and others can be better able to anticipate and react, as well as prevent 
cyberattacks. His work in the field spans both the categories of science and business, 
therefore we are requesting that he be classified as a person of extraordinary ability in 
this hybrid field. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims the Beneficiary can satisfy the following 
criteria: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual and their work; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
2 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner only submitted evidence sufficient 
to establish that the Beneficiary met the criterion at 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) relating to authorship. 
After reviewing the record in its totality, we conclude that the Director's determinations with respect 
to the referenced criteria not met were conclusory and did not adequately address the collective entirety 
of the Petitioner's claims or evidence. 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision does not 
provide a complete analysis and foll explanation of the reasons for denial, we will withdraw that 
decision and remand for farther review and entry of a new decision, consistent with our discussion 
below. That decision should include an analysis of the specific evidence submitted in support of each 
criterion claimed by the Petitioner. 
While the Director may not ultimately discuss each and every document in the record in their decision, 
they should collectively consider and review each one in determining whether the Beneficiary is 
eligible for the benefit sought in this petition. With respect to the standard of proof in this matter, a 
petitioner must establish that the beneficiary meets each eligibility requirement of the benefit sought 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376. In other words, a 
petitioner must show that what it claims is "more likely than not" or "probably" true. users examines 
"each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within 
the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." 
Additionally, to determine whether a petitioner has met its burden under the preponderance standard, 
users considers not only the quantity, but also the quality (including relevance, probative value, and 
credibility) of the evidence. Id. at 376; Matter ofE-M-, 20 I&N Dec. 77, 79-80 (eomm'r 1989). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not satisfy the criterion at 8 e.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), which requires submission of evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary's receipt 
of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor. The Petitioner stated that the Beneficiary could meet this criterion based on his receipt of 
several awards, including the awards he received from the.__ ______ __,:, which are evidenced 
in the record, as well as a letter from the founder of this organization who described the criteria for 
several of the awards recently garnered by the Beneficiary from this organization. For instance, the 
founder discusses the significance of the Beneficiary's Iwhich the Beneficiary won 
out of pool of 2000 nominated candidates including representatives of forty countries. Of these 
nominees, 20 cybersecurity professionals were selected for the award. The founder farther notes that 
this award "recognizes those who have made important and helpful contributions to the realm of 
cybersecurity, of which [the Beneficiary] is certainly one." 
In the denial, the Director generally indicates among other things that the Beneficiary's awards "appear 
to be local or regional in nature, and it has not been established that the prizes or awards were given 
for excellence in the Beneficiary's field of endeavor. ..." While the Director lists some of the awards 
3 
garnered by the Beneficiary in the denial, they do not discuss the specific evidence submitted by the 
Petitioner in support of this claim. As the matter will be remanded, the Director is instructed to re­
examine the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the Petitioner's accompanying 
letters and other evidence such as media articles and information from the awarding institutions' 
websites explaining how the evidence supports the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
With respect to the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), the Petitioner submitted 
no less than 20 published articles about the Beneficiary and his work in the field of endeavor. The 
Director's decision does not specifically reference any of these articles and their analysis consists of a 
conclusory statement that the Petitioner did not submit any evidence regarding the circulation of the 
publications. However, the record indicates the Petitioner's submission of documentation in support 
of its claim that one or more of the submitted articles was published in a major trade publication or 
other major media. Therefore, the decision reflects an incomplete review of the evidence submitted 
in support of this criterion. On remand, the Director should review the record to determine whether 
the Beneficiary met this criterion at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Regarding the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the Director's 
decision did not sufficiently address the evidence it submitted and summarily concludes that the 
"Petitioner failed to demonstrate how [the Beneficiary's] contributions amounted to original work and 
how his work impacted the field as a whole in a major and significant way." We agree with the 
Petitioner's assertion that it is difficult to discern based on the Director's decision what specific 
evidence was considered in reaching this determination. The Director acknowledged in the denial that 
the Beneficiary has authored books on cybersecurity issues, submitted independent reviews of those 
books, as well as reference and testimonial letters about their significance, and that he contributed to 
the creation of an exam blueprint for the certification of cybersecurity professionals. As the decision 
only vaguely explains that the Petitioner has not met its burden to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility 
in the analysis of this criterion, without specifically discussing the collective evidence in the record, 
the Director should re-examine the Petitioner's claims and evidence when evaluating this criterion on 
remand. 
Also, based on our de novo review on appeal, we observe that the Petitioner has discussed and 
submitted documentation regarding the "leading or critical roles" that the Beneficiary has performed 
for major corporations and other institutions that employed him during his 20-year career as a cyber 
security professional. The record contains evidence which suggests that the Beneficiary may also 
meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) based on his tenure in roles, such as CISO, managing 
director, cyber security architect, and vice president of various institutions. 
In general, a leading role may be evidenced from the role itself, and a critical role is one in which an 
individual is responsible for the success or standing of an organization or establishment that enjoys a 
"distinguished reputation." Id. To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that the Beneficiary 
has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or 
department of an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
For a leading role, we look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader 
within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate 
matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading. For a critical role, we 
4 
determine whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of such 
a division or department of the organization or establishment. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.2, https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. On remand, the Director may decide to evaluate the 
evidence of record to determine if the Beneficiary meets this criterion as well. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) which addresses the 
submission of "comparable evidence," if it is determined that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do 
not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) addresses 
comparable evidence and allows a petitioner the opportunity to submit "comparable" evidence to establish 
his or her eligibility, if USCIS determines that a criterion does not readily apply to the individual's 
occupation. See id. A petitioner should explain why it has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at 
least three ofthe criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), as well as why the evidence it has included is 
"comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See id. Here, the Petitioner does not show 
that the standard criteria do not readily apply to the Beneficiary's occupation. On appeal, it asks us to 
consider the applicability of the Beneficiary's published works under the authorship criterion located at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) -which the Director determined the Beneficiary satisfied, outright. As 
discussed, it also maintains throughout this proceeding that the Beneficiary satisfies several other criteria. 
We conclude the Petitioner has not adequately explained its contention that the comparable evidence 
clause applies in this matter. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
For the reasons discussed above, the matter is being remanded to the Director to re-evaluate the 
evidence submitted under the initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). If after review the 
Director determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria, the decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for farther review and entry of a new decision. Should the Director conclude upon review 
that the Beneficiary meets three of the evidentiary criteria, the new decision should include a final 
merits analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary possesses the requisite sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5779473 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 30, 2019 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a human resources manager, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is currently employed as "head of people" at ._I _ ___,I a financial company specializing 
in cryptocurrency. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met seven of the ten criteria. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to performing in a 
leading or critical role for a distinguished organization under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and 
commanding high remuneration under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(xi). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he also meets three other evidentiary criteria as discussed below. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not satisfied any criteria beyond the two that the 
Director granted. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a graduate ofl I University's.__ _________ __, School n School), 
and claims two qualifying memberships through his continued work on behalf of the ~ool. The 
Petitioner claimed that he "was invited to partner with the ~---------------~ ~---------~ ... the world's leading partnership betweente g{obal human resources 
management industry and academia." The Petitioner is also part of the School's Ambassador 
Program. Ambassadors interview prospective graduate students and provide recommendations to the 
graduate admissions council. 
The dean ofthQSchool stated: 
Since graduation, [the Petitioner] has held roles of increasing responsibility with 
innovative global technology companies like I I . . . It is clear that 
he has been a "superstar" in his field, quickly ascending the corporate ladder. For these 
reasons, he has been routinely invited to attend the "Emerging Leaders" event organized 
2 
by ... I i[which] brings together alumni who are leading (arguably the best) 
professionals in the field of Human Resources and Organizational Development to 
exchange best practices as well as new strategies and programs with thought-leaders from 
I I 
The dean did not state that the Petitioner was "invited to partner" wit~ I only that the Petitioner 
was among alumni who were "invited to attend" ~ I event. The dean added that "Ambassadors 
are carefully chosen for their superior accomplishments and high profile." The ambassadors are alsoc=J 
School alumni, rather than a cross section of the field. 
The Director asked the Petitioner to submit evidence of the membership requirements fotj In 
response, the director of I I stated: ~--~ 
One of the more strategic initiatives ofl I is to help mentor and develop the next 
generation of strategic HR leaders who will go on to take executive roles in global 
corporations .... To this end, we started the Emerging Leaders Program in 2015 where 
we carefully selected invited alumni ... to participate in the program. One of the key 
criteria to be invited to be part of this select group is . . . [a] rate of professional growth 
which far exceeds their other peers .... 
[The Petitioner] is a great example of the criteria elucidated above .... [The Petitioner] 
has been a consistent and valuable addition to thel !Emerging Leaders program 
year after year. 
The Director interpreted the above-quoted letter to mean that I I "is an advanced course of 
instruction in human resources to which the petitioner was invited due to his career accomplishments." 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not show that participation in a "course of study constitutes an 
'association in the field,"' or that admission to the program was contingent on outstanding achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's finding that I ~s a "course of instruction." We 
agree that I lis not a course of instruction. Nevertheless, the Petitioner's evidence is deficient in 
crucial ways. The Petitioner submitted no documentary evidence to show that he is a member o±i I 
or to establish the membership requirements to joi~ I even after the Director specwca])y rearested 
such evidence. I I officials praised the Petitioner but never called him a member o ~--~ They 
stated only that the Petitioner routinely participates in "Emerging Leaders," which one official called a 
"program," and another called an "event," a term suggesting a very short-term occurrence. A mentoring 
and career development program or event is not an association, and attendance at such an event is not 
membership in an association. 1 
The Petitioner has not established that he is a member of I I( as opposed to a participant iJ I 
programs), and therefore the information abou~ I cannot satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
1 Had this case proceeded to a final merits determination, the Petitioner's ongoing participation in the Emerging Leaders 
program would have been highly relevant to the outcome of the petition. The Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification 
intended for individuals who are already at the top of the field, rather than making progress in that direction. A successful 
petition must rest on documented achievements, rather than on expectations, however solidly grounded those expectations 
appear to be. 
3 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not establish that the D School's Ambassador Program is an association in 
its own right, with members chosen by national or international experts in their fields. Rather, the small 
amount of available information indicates that ambassadors are chosen annually from amongst theD 
School's alumni on an ad hoc basis to assist with each year's interview process. 
The Petitioner has not established that he is a member of any association in the field which requires 
outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their disciplines or fields. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner also contends that his work with theD School's Ambassador Program satisfies the 
criterion with respect to participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specification. 
The dean oftheO School stated the following in a letter submitted by the Petitioner: 
[The Beneficiary] has ... been part of the Ambassador Program ofl I School, 
which assists the Graduate Committee in the admissions process by interviewing 
prospective applicants for the graduate masters program and providing input that is 
important to the final decision made by the [radiate admissions committee. . . . 
Ambassadors are carefully chosen [ from among School alumni] for their superior 
accomplishments and high profile. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not judged "the work of his peers" in "a formal ... capacity," 
but rather had engaged in "mentoring and evaluation of candidates for his school." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director impermissibly introduced new and artificially restrictive 
requirements, such as formal designation as a judge, and that those being judged are "peers" of those 
performing the judging. There is substance to these objections, but the Petitioner has not established that 
he satisfies the criterion. 
The Petitioner has not shown that he decides on admissions to the graduate program. Instead, he provides 
feedback which is one of several weighted factors that the admissions committee takes into consideration. 
The record does not include documentary evidence relating to the Ambassador Program to show how 
much weight the evaluation receives or to specify the exact role that ambassadors play in the admissions 
process. The reference to "prospective applicants" appears to imply that the interviewees have not yet 
applied to the program at the time of the interviews, in which case the interview would be a very 
preliminary stage in the admissions process. 
Furthermore, the wording of the regulation calls for participation as a judge of the work of others in the 
same or allied field. The Petitioner notes that "serving as a member of a Ph.D. dissertation committee ... 
satisfies this criterion." In that example, the committee evaluates specific, identifiable work product (the 
4 
dissertation). Sitting for an interview is not work in the field, and the Petitioner has not shown thatD 
School ambassadors evaluate factors other than beyond the impressions they receive during those 
interviews. Also, because the graduate program is for a master's degree, the prospective applicants would 
appear to be undergraduate students who are not yet employed in the field of human resources 
management or an allied field. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that he has participated as a 
judge the work of the prospective students, in the same or an allied field for which he seeks classification. 
The Petitioner has not submitted detailed, corroborated information about the Ambassador Program to 
show that the Petitioner's involvement amounts to participation as a judge of the work of others. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner initially stated that he "authored articles in the field of human resources for major media 
outlets," which is not the wording of the regulation. The Petitioner submitted printouts from two articles 
published online "in a Singapore-based publication called Data Driven Investor." 
The Director found that the Petitioner's published work was written for the general public, rather than for 
specialized, scholarly readership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner disputes the Director's definition of "scholarly articles," saying that such a 
definition does not appear in the regulations. The Petitioner contends: "An article is scholarly so long as 
it demonstrates the author's knowledge on a particular subject matter." 
The Petitioner cites an unpublished district court decision from 2008 in support of this argument. In 
contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a U.S. circuit court, we are not bound to 
follow the decision of a U.S. district court, even if that decision is published and concerned a matter 
in in the same district with jurisdiction over the matter under consideration. Matter of K-S-, 20 I&N 
Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). In this instance, the decision is not published, and the case at hand is not within 
the jurisdiction of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, source of the cited decision. Although the 
reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly 
before us, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter oflaw. Id. at 719. 
One authority that is binding in this proceeding is USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, 
Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's 
Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/ 
legal-resources/policy-memoranda. Elsewhere in the appellate brief, the Petitioner cites this very 
memorandum, and acknowledges its authority. Regarding scholarly articles, the memorandum states: 
As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in 
the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In 
general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, 
charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 
5 
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. 
("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship"). 
Id. at 9. Furthermore, the cited district court decision focused on the definition of the word "scholarly," 
rather than the phrase "scholarly articles." The regulation does not define "scholarly articles," but that 
phrase is a term of art with an existing consensus on its meaning. 2 This consensus is evident from a 
review of the traits of articles and publications tracked by Google Scholar, https://scholar.google.com/, 
as opposed to the standard Google search engine. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his articles in Data Driven Investor constitute scholarly articles. They 
appear, instead, to be "blog" posts offering general personnel advice to entrepreneurs. 
Initially, the Petitioner also claimed to have satisfied two other criteria, pertaining to published 
material about the alien under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and original business-related contributions of 
major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Director found that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied these criteria, and on appeal, the Petitioner does not contest or rebut those findings. Therefore, 
we consider the Petitioner to have abandoned these issues. See Sepulveda v. US. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 
1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 
at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiff's claims to be abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 As a representative example, we take administrative notice thatl I University, where the Petitioner earned his 
master's degree, has a guide for "Distinguishing Scholarly rrom Non-Scholarly Periodicals." This guide differentiates 
between "scholarly or peer-reviewed journal articles," which are typically peer-reviewed, include footnotes, and "assume[] 
some technical background on the pa11 of the reader," and "popular aiticles," which are written for a wider audience. 
Source: http://guides.libraryj ledu/scholarlyjournals/scholarly (last visited Dec. 11, 2019). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 05214621 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 30, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a reggae guitarist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as a session musician and solo artist. He has also played with various band: 
He was musical director ofl I from 2006 to 2012, and has been the guitarist forl ·~ I 
since its formation in 2004. The Petitioner calls himself "one of the greatest reggae guitarists in Latin 
American history." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria, numbered (vii). On 
appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other five claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we will not disturb the Director's determination 
regarding criterion (vii). As explained below, we have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, and 
conclude that it does not show that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
The Petitioner mentions various awards over the course of the proceeding, but not all of them are 
documented, and the Petitioner discusses only one of them on appeal. We consider the other claims to 
be abandoned. 1 
A printout from the website ofl I indicates that I I won an award for Best 
Ska/Reggae Artist. 2 The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he personally received 
the award, because the award went to the group as a whole. 
We agree with the Petitioner that, as an integral member of the group named on the award, he is among 
the award' s recipients. But there is a more fundamental issue. 
The Petitioner submits no independent evidence to establish the national or international recognition of 
the award. Self-serving promotional material from the awarding entity's own website does not suffice in 
this regard, because the entity's opinion or representation of its own awards does not constitute 
recognition. 
For the above reasons, and because the Petitioner makes no other assertions regarding prizes or awards 
on appeal, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a member of the Society of Authors and Composers of Venezuela (SACVEN). The 
record establishes that SACVEN's role is the protection of artists' intellectual property rights (such as 
copyrights). We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not show that SACVEN 
requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner quotes the Director's decision on this point, but does not address the issue. 
Instead, the Petitioner maintains that he "provided statements of confirmation of membership," a fact that 
the Director did not dispute. 
The Petitioner has not shown that his membership in SACVEN meets the regulatory requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 The Petitioner states that his band won the award in 2016, which is the date shown on the website printout, but 
photographs show the date "2014" printed on the award statuette. 
3 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits English translations of seven online articles. Most of the articles refer to~I --~ 
,__ __ __.lcollectively, but not the Petitioner individually. The regulation requires "published material about 
the alien," rather than about organizations or groups that include him. Also, not all of the submitted 
translations are complete, as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Even then, some of 
these references to the band appear to be passing mentions. The fragmentary translations do not provide 
sufficient context in this regard. 
The Petitioner's name appears in only one of the seven articles. A 2014 article from La Radio del Sur 
reported a then-upcoming festival performance byl I The Spanish-language article has six 
paragraphs, but the translated excerpt comprises only two sentences, one of which is a list of band 
members including the Petitioner. His name does not appear elsewhere in the article. 
A "Website Analysis Overview Report" for La Radio del Sur' s website shows a "Country Rank" of 
10,420 and a "News and Media" "Category Rank" of 37,310. The Petitioner does not explain how these 
rankings meet the regulatory requirements for qualifying media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that articles about I I are effectively about him, because he 
plays a pivotal role as lead guitarist, but the articles do not single him out either by name or by reference 
to him as the guitarist. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner submits photographs and press clippings about I , ] hut does not identif~ any I 
specific ori~inal artistic contributions or establish the significance thereof The Petitioner claims tha I "is responsible for bringing the genre ofreggae to the country of Venezuela," but the record 
does not corroborate this assertion. According to one of its foundersJ I existed as a reggae band 
at least five years beforel !formed inc=J Furthermore, the Petitioner did not create the 
reggae genre, and he does not explain how playing an existing style of music in a new location constitutes 
an original contribution. 
One of the news articles about the band states tha~ !"managed to revolutionize the entire 
world with a lyrical content that speaks of love and everyday life," but this assertion, while bold, lacks 
detail, and the record does not otherwise support it. Even then, the article does not identify any specific 
contribution by the Petitioner that would satisfy the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner submits three letters intended to describe his original contributions and their significance. 
All three letters are from his current or former bandmates. Two of the letters are from other members of I lcneither of whom claim that their band was the first reggae group in Venezuela). The 
band's lead singer lists concerts and festivals in which the band has performed, and he states that the 
4 
Petitioner played on the singer's first solo album. He does not identify specific contributions or explain 
their significance. 
The band's bassist provides a general assessment of the Petitioner's value to the band, stating: "He is 
responsible for providing the instrumentals necessary to make a song alive. . . . [His] solo parts made our 
songs particularly distinguished and more engaging for our listeners." General praise of this kind does 
not establish how the Petitioner's work amounted to original contributions, nor does it show how those 
contributions are significant to the field outside of the framework of the band. 
The former rhythm guitarist o±1 I asserts: 1 I's second CD is an iconic work of art in the 
Venezuelan reggae scene, in Venezuela rock and pop music history, and a very important contribution to 
Latin American culture. This achievement is very much due to [the Petitioner's] work as producer and 
musician." Like the other letters, this letter indicates that the Petitioner's contributions lay in his work 
with the band, but does not elaborate or show that this opinion is shared outside of that band. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that: 
his contribution to the development of [the] reggae field in Venezuela and to the musical 
culture in Venezuela, South America and Caribbean: (a) has provoked widespread 
commentary, (b) has received notice/recognition from others working in the field; (c) has 
been analyzed by experts in the field who have detailed the impact of his contributions on 
the international arts and culture sector, and ( d) has received the highest awards in the 
field. 
The Petitioner, however, does not elaborate upon any of these claims, or cite any record evidence to 
corroborate them. General praise from bandmates does not satisfy the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) cannot change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve the remaining 
issue. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has established his membership in bands which appear 
to have attracted some notice, but the evidence does not show the required sustained national or 
international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12796067 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, he 
did not establish, as required, that he has sustained national or international acclaim and that he is 
among that small percentage at the very top of his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for the entry of 
a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who works in the film, theatre and television industry in Bangladesh. 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). Specifically, the Director determined, and the record supports, that the Petitioner has received 
nationally recognized awards, that he and his work were featured in published materials in major 
media, and that he authored a scholarly article in a professional publication. See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (vi). The Director determined that the Petitioner claimed, but did not meet, 
the criterion related to display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Because the Petitioner met three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded to a final merits 
determination. In a final merits determination, the Director must analyze all of a petitioner's 
accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient 
to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the Director's decision reflects that he did not consider all the 
evidence together in its totality in determining whether the Petitioner is eligible for the benefit sought. 
We agree with that assertion as the final merits determination section of the decision contains few 
references to the submitted evidence. For example, although the Director determined that the 
Petitioner satisfied both the awards and published materials criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and 
(iii), the Director did not mention or weigh the evidence related to his awards and media coverage in 
1 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Ce11ain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
the final merits discussion. In fact, the only evidence specifically referenced in the final merits 
determination is the Petitioner's co-authored scholarly article submitted under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Director's decision rests primarily on a conclusion that the Petitioner had not 
show that "authorship of one scholarly article is reflective of [his] being among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field." 
In addition, the Petitioner asserts that the Director provided a confusing and self-contradictory analysis 
of the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and maintains that he submitted sufficient 
evidence to establish that he meets this criterion. S ecificall , the Petitioner claimed eligibility based 
on the screening of his film at Film Festival and based on his live 
theatrical performances at the ,__ _____ _.Festival in Bangladesh. 
The Director found that the evidence submitted in support of this criterion did not meet its 
requirements for two reasons: first, the Petitioner's work did not fall into the "visual arts" such as 
painting, sculpting and photography; and second, that the Petitioner failed to demonstrate that "the 
exhibition or showcase is itself of distinction." The Director noted that "displaying work at festivals 
is not a uniquely extraordinary accomplishment or associated with those at the apex of the industry." 
However, as the Petitioner states on appeal, neither of these requirements appear in this regulatory 
criterion. USCIS may not utilize novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221, citing Love Korean Church v. Chertoff, 549 F.3d 
749, 758 (9th Cir.2008). 
The purpose of a film or theatre festival is typically to showcase or exhibit films or plays as artistic 
works. Accordingly, the Director should re-evaluate the evidence submitted to determine whether the 
Petitioner has satisfied the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). A 
determination as to whether the evidence submitted under this criterion supports the Petitioner's 
extraordinary ability claim should be made in the final merits determination. 
Finally, in addition to not weighing the evidence submitted in support of the nationally-recognized 
awards, published materials and display criteria, the Director's final merits discussion disregarded 
evidence that the Petitioner had submitted in support of his petition. Such evidence included, in part, 
multiple reference letters, evidence that the Petitioner served as the I I of the actors' union in 
Bangladesh, and evidence of other awards and honors he received during his lengthy career. Because 
the Director did not consider any of this evidence in the final merits analysis, the decision does not 
sufficiently address why the Petitioner has not demonstrated that that he is an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
An officer must folly explain the reasons for denying a visa petition in order to allow a petitioner a 
fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a 
decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful 
opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for farther review and 
entry of a new decision. As the Director already determined that the Petitioner satisfied at least three 
criteria, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether 
3 
the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
international acclaim and whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12844326 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a gymnastics athlete and performer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, 
internationally recognized award), or that he meets at least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a gymnastics athlete who competed for~I r---~li=n"--1 __ ~ ____ __,,l competitions 
between 2007 and 2015. Since 2016, he has worked forl I as a tumbling performer in 
itsl I and J I shows. 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and therefore must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only one of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). The Director acknowledged 
the Petitioner's claim that he met the criteria related to lesser internationally recognized awards and 
prizes at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and membership in an association that requires outstanding 
achievements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.4(h)(3)(ii). However, the Director concluded that the evidence did not 
demonstrate that he meets these criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has received multiple major, internationally recognized 
awards in the sport of gymnastics and can satisfy the initial evidence requirement based on these 
awards alone. The Petitioner farther claims that he meets three of the alternate evidentiary criteria and 
is otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he received a major, internationally recognized award or that he satisfies the requirements of at least 
three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. One-time Achievement 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner has been the recipient of: (1) two gold medals (individual 
and men's team competition) at the 2007 lworld Championship; (2) a gold 
2 
medal (men's team competition) at the 20151 I world Championship s; (3) a 
bronze medal at the 2011 World Championships; ( 4) a gold medal at the 2009 
I !World Games; and (5) multiple gold medals inl __ ----.---------
World Cup events between 2007 and 2009. The Petitioner claims that his gold medals from the World 
Games and World Championships are his "most important accomplishments" and contends that the 
Director erred in failing to recognize any of these awards as major, internationally recognized awards 
consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . 
The evidence establishes that the World Championships and World Games competitions in which the 
Petitioner participated are officially recognized by the international governing body of the sport of 
gymnastics (International Gymnastics Federation or FIG). The evidence also demonstrates that I I unlike several other gymnastic disciplines , is not an Olympic sport, and that the World 
Championships and World Games represent the highest level of international competition inl I 
In determining that the Petitioner did not establish that his gold medal finishes at these events 
constitute qualifying one-time achievements , the Director emphasized that his achievements "are not 
Olympic awards." 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that sincel I is not an Olympic sport, an Olympic medal 
"is not an applicable example of a major international award in [his] field of expertise." The Petitioner 
argues that, since many athletes are not eligible to compete in the Olympics based on their field, an 
Olympic medal should not be the only example of a qualifying one-time achievement in athletics. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) provides that "[s]uch evidence shall include evidence of a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major internal[ly] recognized award)." While the regulation does not 
identify any specific qualifying award, the House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an 
example of a one-time achievement. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 
U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. We have consistently recognized other examples of 
a one-time achievement including the Pulitzer Prize, an Academy Award, and an Olympic medal. 
Further, we must look to Congress ' intent that "admission under this category is to be reserved for that 
small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." Id. Thus, 
consistent with legislative history, a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with 
only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. 
We note that the selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress indicated above, is 
reported in the top media internationally regardles s of the nationality of the awardees , reflects a 
familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally 
recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those 
elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope 
and internationally recognized , not just acknowledged within the field as its highest award. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted several major media articles about the World Games 
andl lworld championships , but this evidence does not demonstrate that medals achieved at 
these games are accorded the same recognition associated with a one-time achievement or major, 
internationally recognized award. In fact, some the articles indicate the World Games' lesser 
recognition or standing. For example, an article published by PRI (pri.org) about the 2009 World 
Games refers to the competition as "an obscure sporting event run under the patronage of the Olympic 
3 
Committee but featuring non-Olympic sports" and notes that the World Games' motto "The World is 
Watching," was "clearly an overstatement or wishful thinking -no U.S. broadcaster picked up the 
games." The evidence demonstrates that CNN.com published an article about the opening of the 2009 
World Games, while BBC.col publired a brief preview of the 2019 I I 
World Championships held in However, the submitted media articles do not indicates that 
individual medal winners at these international tumbling events receive broad, significant recognition 
commensurate with that received by winners of Nobel Prizes, Olympic medals, Academy Awards or 
other major internationally recognized awards. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that these 
international events are recognized by the general public at a similar level. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner has won the top award inl lhe did not establish that receipt of 
such an award necessarily qualifies as a one-time achievement, nor can we determine that the top 
award in any field qualifies as a one-time achievement. The fact that a major, internationally 
recognized award, such as an Olympic medal, may not exist in a particular field does not mean that 
we should diminish the impressive nature of the one-time achievement and accept a lesser award. In 
cases where an individual cannot obtain a one-time achievement, including instances where it is not 
available in a field, he or she "can also qualify on the basis of a career of acclaimed work in the field" 
by satisfying three of the ten categories of evidence. See H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Moreover, awards that may be internationally recognized in the field do not necessarily demonstrate 
that they are also major or consistent with one-time achievements . In those instances, the regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) allows for an individual to submit lesser internationally recognized awards 
for excellence in the field. 
For the reasons discussed, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). As 
noted, the Petitioner claims that he has submitted evidence to satisfy the criteria related to lesser 
nationally recognized awards, membership in an organization that requires outstanding achievements, 
and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) , (ii) and (ix). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
As discussed, the record establishes that the Petitioner has received gold medals at the World 
Championships , World Games and World Cup events i~ l and that these events are sanctioned 
by FIG, the international governing body of the sport of gymnastics. The Director determined that the 
Petitioner submitted insufficient evidence of his receipt of these awards and did not demonstrate that 
they are internationally recognized awards for excellence in his field. Further, the Director found that, 
since the Petitioner is currently employed "as a circus performer," his achievements as an athletic 
gymnast "have no probative value for this criterion." 
4 
We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied this criterion and withdraw the Director's determination. 
The Petitioner sufficiently documented his receipt of the above-referenced awards by providing 
official results from these competitions as well as his athlete profile on the FIG website. He also 
provided evidence to establish that the awards are internationally recognized in the sport of 
gymnastics. 
With respect to the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner's athletic achievements have "no probative 
value," we note that the Petitioner's role withl lis that of a'.__ _______ _.' A 
letter from! I confirms that this organization recruited him after its talent scouts saw his 
athletic performance at the 20151 lworld Championship. His employer states that it relies on 
his athletic abilities "to execute some of the most complex I I routines" in its 
shows. This evidence demonstrates a clear nexus between the Petitioner's athletic skills as a gymnast 
in thel I and his role as a performer in th~ I and a transitional 
relationship between the two. Accordingly, we disagree with the Director's conclusion that his 
achievements as an athlete have "no probative value" given his current role as al I performer. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as a former member of the I IN ational 
,__ __ __,I Team. A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate 
eligibility for this criterion, as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous 
selection process. It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate that he meets every element 
of a given criterion. We will not assume that every "national team" is sufficiently exclusive and 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields or disciplines. 
Here, the Petitioner provided a letter from.__ ________ __.of th Federation of I I which he describes as "the national governing body for the disciplines 't'""'---.-__ J 
I t I lconfirms that the Petitioner was a member of the,___~N ational I !Team from November 2007 until December 2012 and from January 2015 until December 
2015. With respect to the team membership requirements, he states: 
In order to be including in thel INationall I Team an athlete must, at a 
minimum be a national I champil n in at least one program. In order to maintain his or 
her membership in the National I I Team, an athlete must continue 
placing first at national championships. 
[The Petitioner] received several top place awards atl I Championships 
and Cups and he is a multiple-time national champion and ~old medalist. These awards 
secured his membership in the I I Nationall jTeam. 
,__ ___ ~I also identifies members of the panel of judges at "the I I National .... l ___ __. 
Championship where [ the Petitioner] competed, secured first places and as a result earned membership 
5 
in the I !National I I Team," noting that they are "nationally and internationally 
recognized experts." He suggests that USCIS review their profiles on the federation's website. 
The Petitioner submitted two additional letters from U.S.-based gymnastics coaches not associated 
with thd !Federation ofl 11 I of the World Olympic Gymnastics 
Academy states that the Petitioner "secured his place in the National Team when he n 1 medals 
at national championships and cups" and therefore "selection to the I !National Team 
is a clear indication of having attained 'outstanding achievements' in the field." Similarly, I lof the Olympicl !Academy states that the Russian national team "is com~p-r-is-e~d 
of athletes of top achievements, who in order to qualify for national membership, must at the minimum 
be national champions." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not properly weigh these letters or acknowledge 
that membership on thel I Nationall J Team requires outstanding achievements of its 
members by only accepting national champions in the sport. We note that the Director stated that 
"[r]equirements that only include employment or activity in a given field; minimum education, 
experience or achievement, recommendations by colleagues or current members; or payment of dues 
do not satisfy this criterion." The Petitioner correctly notes that he did not claim or provide evidence 
that his membership on the national team in his sport was based on any of these factors. 
Turning to the submitted evidence, we note that while all three letters referenced above indicate that the 
Petitioner qualified for the I I National I O I Team as a result of winning national 
championships, the record contains no independent evidence of the Petitioner's competition results in any I bational championship or any other national event. If he became a member of the national team 
based solely on this achievement, it is reasonable to expect that he provide documentary evidence 
demonstrating that he was in fact the I lnationaII Jchampion in each year he was on the 
team. 
Further, the Petitioner relies solely on the above-referenced letters in support of his claim that 
membership on the team requires an outstanding achievement, i.e., a national championship. Only 
one of the letters is from a person associated with the sport's national federation, and none of them are 
sufficiently specific with respect to the national team membership requirements or selection processes. 
Notably, the record does not contain corroborating ridence, such as a translated copy of the official 
rules or selection procedures from the I Federation ofl I Therefore, based on the 
above, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that his membership on the national 
team satisfies all elements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. For the reasons discussed below, we will 
withdraw that determination. 
The Petitioner provided copies of his pay statements and a copy of his IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax 
Statement, which show that that he earned gross pay of $78,229.43 from I lin 2019. 
The evidence indicated that these gross earnings included "miscellaneous non-taxable compensation" 
6 
of $27,326.71, identified on his pay statements as "Lodging Allow" and "Market All." After 
subtracting these allowances, his wages were $50,901.72. 
The Petitioner's contract of employment withl I for thd I show indicates that he 
was to be paid a weekly salary for rehearsals in early 2019, and $140 per performance of the show 
between April and December 2019. The "show" compensation of $140 is listed on the Petitioner's 
pay statement as an hourly rate and his assertion that his salary is high is based, in part, on a claimed 
hourly wage of $140. However, this rate is inconsistent with the terms of his contract, which lists this 
rate as his "per performance" remuneration. Moreover, we note that the provided employment contract 
indicates that the Petitioner is expected to spend time participating in several activities ancillary to 
performances for which no additional remuneration is provided, such as costume and make up sessions 
and 18 hours of rehearsals per week. Although the Petitioner maintains on appeal that his hourly pay 
is "$190" none of the supporting evidence indicates that he earns this hourly wage. Moreover, based 
on the terms of the Petitioner's contract, the evidence does not establish that his hourly pay is $140. 
The Petitioner provided comparative wage data from several sources in support of his claim that he 
has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. Data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics (BLS) shows that "Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers, All Other" 
earn a mean hourly wage of$21.53, with the top ten percent earning at least $42.47 per hour. However, 
for the reasons discussed above, the evidence provided does not clearly identify the Petitioner's hourly 
wage or the number of hours he works per week while on tour withl I 
Information the Petitioner obtained from Payscale indicates that the average circus performer earns 
an annual salary of $39,548, with the top 10% of earners receiving $70,000 or more annually in salary 
and "total pay" as high as $87,000. The Petitioner's 2019 earnings ($50,901 after deducting lodging 
and "market" allowances) is above the average listed here, but well below the highest earners. We 
also note that this data is based on information obtained from only 14 individuals and may not reliably 
represent industry salaries. 
The third and final source the Petitioner provided is an article titled "Becoming a Circus Performer" 
published by the website KidzWorld inl 12017. The article features an interview with a I !acrobat and dancer who indicates that she is required to work "a lot oflong hours and 
weekends." The article states that "featured performers like acrobats, contortionists or trapeze artists 
can make between $40,000 and $70,000 a year" along with free room and board while traveling with 
a show but it does not cite a source for these figures. Further, as noted, the Petitioner's salary, after 
deducting the lodging and other allowances that appear to be standard in this field, was $50,901 and 
not on the higher end of the stated wage for a "featured performer." 
For these reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the high salary 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
7 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12828281 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through receipt of a major, 
internationally-recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Director also found that the Petitioner had not established that he would 
continue to work in his area of expertise in the United States. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal of 
the Director's decision, as well as the Petitioner's subsequent motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates 
eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted in our previous decisions, the Petitioner is an athlete, instructor, referee and judge in several 
martial arts forms, and seeks to continue working as a martial arts instructor in the United States. 
Although the Director found that he did not meet any of the criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
disagreed in our decision on appeal, concluding that the evidence establishes that he has judged the 
work of other martial artists. In our most recent decision dismissing the Petitioner's motion to 
reconsider, we found that he had not demonstrated that our decision regarding the other two criteria 
he claimed, those relating to his receipt of lesser awards and his membership in associations requiring 
outstanding achievements, were based on an incorrect application of law or policy. 
In his second motion to reconsider, the Petitioner reasserts his claim to the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii), and argues that we did not adhere to the "preponderance of the 
evidence" standard per agency ]olicy and caselaw.1 When addressing his gold medal at the 2017 I Championship, he states that he submitted "relevant, initial and 
probative evidence" initially and in response to the Director's request for evidence, but that we 
"unilaterally impose[d] Petitioner to provide additional evidence." However, the submission of 
relevant and probative evidence alone does not mean that a petitioner has satisfied their burden of 
proof and established that all requirements have been met. As noted in the section of the USCIS 
memorandum cited by the Petitioner, once such evidence has been provided, "USCIS officers should 
objectively evaluate such initial evidence under a preponderance of the evidence standard to determine 
whether or not it is acceptable."2 In our decision on appeal, we articulated the reasons why the 
evidence in the record did not show that the gold medal is nationally or internationally recognized, as 
required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), and we summarized that analysis in our decision on the 
Petitioner's first motion to reopen. We do not find that his reference to the preponderance of the 
evidence standard in this second motion to reconsider is sufficient to show that we incorrectly applied 
that standard of proof. 
Regarding the criterion relating to his membership in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), the 
Petitioner repeats his assertion from his first motion to reconsider that the statement made in a 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. 4, (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html, citing to Matter of E-M, 20 l&N Dec. 77, 79-80 
(Comm'r 1989). 
2 Id. 
2 
reference letter about his membership in thel !Karate Association establishes that he 
meets the criterion's requirements. He now adds that this evidence was probative, and cites to the 
relevant USCIS memorandum for the proposition that officers should not impose novel evidentiary 
requirements beyond those in the regulations. As we noted above, however, the submission ofrelevant 
and probative evidence does not lead to the conclusion that all regulatory requirements have been met. 
In our previous two decisions, we analyzed the content of a letter from the secretary general of this 
organization, but found that the mention of the Petitioner's "outstanding success and extraordinary 
achievement in the field of Martial Arts" was not supported by independent evidence of its 
membership requirements. In other words, the fact that the secretary general made a vague statement 
about the Petitioner's accomplishments in his field does not support a finding that all honorary 
members of the organization are required to have outstanding achievements. We farther concluded 
that while the letter indicated that this honorary membership was approved by the organization's 
Central Executive Committee, this was not sufficient to show that the members of this committee were 
recognized national or international experts, as required. The Petitioner does not explain how our 
previous decisions introduced novel evidentiary requirements beyond those in the plain language of 
this criterion. 
The Petitioner also argues that we have refused to address the Director's finding that he did not meet 
the requirement at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5) that the petition be accompanied by evidence that he will 
continue to work in his field in the United States. In both our most recent decision on motion and our 
appeal decision, we noted that we need not address that issue, since the Petitioner had not established 
that he met the initial evidentiary requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). For the same reason, we 
will continue to reserve that issue. 3 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that our 
previous decision was incorrect based upon the evidence of record or that we misapplied relevant 
policy or law. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11973164 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, 1 concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification, he did not demonstrate his 
sustained national or international acclaim and establish that he is among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
1 Initially, the Director issued a notice acknowledging the withdrawal of the petition. The Petitioner filed a motion to 
reconsider , asserting that he had not requested the withdrawal. The Director granted the motion and issued a decision 
denying the petition on its merits on March 5, 2019. The Petitioner appealed that decision to our office, and we withdrew 
the Director's decision and remanded the matter to the Director for entry of a new decision. The Director's new decision, 
dated April 8, 2020, is now before us on appeal. 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who works in the Chinese film, television and theater industry. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the ten alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed to meet four of these criteria, and the Director 
concluded that he submitted evidence to satisfy at least three of them. 2 Specifically, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner met the criteria relating to lesser nationally recognized awards, 
published materials in major media, and participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (iv). We will not disturb the Director's determinations with respect 
to these criteria. 
After determining that the Petitioner satisfied three of the regulatory criteria, the Director proceeded 
to a final merits determination. Based on an evaluation of the totality of the evidence, the Director 
2 The Director's decision contains a typographical enor and states that the Petitioner "has met the plain language of 
criterion i, ii, ii, and iv." However, the explanation that followed indicated that the Petitioner met the awards, published 
materials and judging criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii) and (iv). Specifically, before proceeding to the final merits 
determination, the Director referenced the Petitioner's participation on a judging committee fort he China Film Performing 
Arts Institute, his receipt of al !Award for acting in 2004, and media coverage of the Petitioner and his work in 
People's Daily. In the final merits determination below, we will consider evidence submitted in support of all claimed 
criteria, including the criterion related to memberships in associations at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
2 
concluded that the record did not show the Petitioner's sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrate that he is at the very top of his field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in conducting a multi-part analysis and final 
merits determination, citing to both U.S. Supreme Court caselaw on statutory interpretation and 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Specifically, the Petitioner cites to Escondido Mut. Water 
Co. v. La Jolla Band of Mission Indians, 466 U.S. 765, 72 (1984), in which the Court determined that 
"[absent] a clearly expressed legislative intention to the contrary, [statutory] language must ordinarily 
be regarded as conclusive." The Petitioner argues this same plain language rule applies to regulatory 
language and that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires only that he provide evidence of a 
qualifying major, internationally recognized award or evidence that satisfies at least three of the ten 
alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He further contends that "[s]ince Service Center 
acknowledged [he] has met at least 3 of the 10 criteria, according to the US Supreme Court's plain 
language rule, this petition should be approved." 
The Petitioner further claims that the Ninth Circuit Court's decision in Kazarian supports his position. 
Specifically, he maintains that, according to Kazarian, if an applicant has satisfied at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), "he should win" and if "he has met 2 or less, he 
should lose." In addition, he states that "[n]owhere in Kazarian v. USCIS does 9th Circuit rule that 
meeting 3 types of evidence does not qualify for extraordinary abilities." The Petitioner is mistaken 
in his reading of Kazarian, which does in fact set forth the multi-part analysis referenced above, in 
which eligibility can only be established if a petitioner first meets the initial evidence requirements of 
a qualifying major internationally recognized award or at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Kazarian decision does not state that meeting three of these criteria establishes 
eligibility for this classification. Rather, Kazarian discusses a two-part review where the evidence is 
first counted and then, if fulfilling the initial evidence requirements, considered in the context of a 
final merits determination to determine whether a given petitioner is one of that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor consistent with the statute and regulations for this 
restrictive classification. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that the Director erred in 
proceeding to a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, sustained national or international acclaim and that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 3 In this matter, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets 
3 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Ceitain Form T-140 
3 
this very high standard. On appeal, the Petitioner has not addressed the Director's decision beyond 
objecting to its inclusion of a multi-part analysis and final merits determination. Upon our de nova 
review of the record, and for the reasons discussed below, we have reached the same conclusion as 
the Director. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has maintained a professional acting career in China's theater, 
television, and film industries since the 1980s. A published article about the Petitioner mentions that 
he was admitted tol I folk arts troupe as an arts student in 1974, and later studied at the 
.__ __ ___.I Drama Academy's Department of Performance beginning in 1980. We note that the record 
does not contain the Petitioner's complete filmography, but only highlights a few of his more notable 
projects over the course of his career. 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner has won awards for acting, been featured in at least one major 
media publication, and served as a judge for an award given in the Chinese film industry. He also 
submitted evidence of his membership in a national association for theater actors. The record, 
however, does not demonstrate that his achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
The Petitioner has established that he has received five acting awards from national performin arts 
entities in China. Based on the evidence submitted, the most significant of these awards was 
Award forl I Actor he received in 2004 for his role in the fil~-----------' 
I la role which also resulted in his nomination for a~----~ Award. The 
Petitioner described the I I Award as the "highest government honor in film industry" and as 
one of China's three main film awards along with thel I Awards andl I 
A wards. Although the Petitioner did not submit documentation describing these awards or their 
relative significance, we note that the record reflects that he received major media recognition in 
People's Daily as well as media coverage in other Chinese publications based on his receipt of the 
I IA ward and I I nomination. The evidence establishes that the award is nationally 
recognized and that his receipt of the award garnered the Petitioner some national acclaim in China. 
However, he received this award 13 years prior to filing the petition and must demonstrate that he 
sustained this level of acclaim and remains at the very top of his field. 
The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner received a China I !Actor Award 
from the China Television Artists Association in 1993 for his role·in the serie~ I LJ The Petitioner described thel O I as "one of the most prestigious television awards 
alongside th~ IA wards andl I Awards," and provided background information regarding 
the award from the user-edited online encyclopedia sites Wikipedia and Baidu, 4 and from China 
Documentary Network, as well as a list of all previous winners from Sahu. While the evidence 
confirms the Petitioner's receipt of the award in 1993 and is sufficient to establish that it is a nationally 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 We note that Wikipedia and Baidu are online, open source, user-edited encyclopedias. Wikipedia explicitly states it 
cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (last visited Dec. 22, 2020), 
https://en.wikipedia.org /wiki/Wikipedia: General disclaimer; see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
4 
recognized award in the Chinese television industry, the record does not demonstrate that he received 
significant media coverage as a result of winning the award. Further, the record lacks evidence 
establishing the level of national acclaim associated with this achievement, or to what degree such 
acclaim was sustained, given that the record contains little or no other evidence relating to the 
Petitioner's career in the 1990s. 
For his work in theater, the Petitioner received a China.__ ______ __.Award from the China 
Drama Art Research Society in 2014. The award is described in the record as "the only professional 
award for Chinese drama art," and the record includes evidence that a list of the 2014 winners was 
published on the websites of thel !Theatre of China and the I I Theatre Association. 
However, the record does not include evidence that the award ceremony or the winners received, for 
example, media attention from major media or entertainment industry publications and does not 
otherwise establish to what extent this award, the only one he received in the same decade the petition 
was filed, contributed to the Petitioner's sustained national acclaim. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided evidence that he has twice received the I I Award" ( also known 
as the I I Award") from the China Film Performing Art Institute, in 1989 and in 2005. 
According to the selection rules published on the website of the China Film Performing Art Institute, 
the award is "a professional award voted by and issued to its I I in the institute." This bi­
annual award is also described in the record as "the only performance art award in China solely voted 
by I I" The Petitioner submitted evidence that the 2005 award ceremony was covered 
by Sina Entertainment (http://ent.sina.com.cn) but we cannot determine based on one media report the 
extent to which these awards, granted to the Petitioner 28 and 12 years prior to the filing of the petition, 
resulted in or contributed to his sustained national or international acclaim. 
Overall, the evidence related to the Petitioner's awards establishes that he has received industry 
recognition based on his performances on stage, in television and in film, as well as some major media 
recognition, specifically as a result of his I I Award received in 2004. Although his awards 
span a period of 25 years, he received all but one of his acting awards 12 or more years prior to the 
filing of the petition in 201 7, while the significance of his one more recent award has not been 
established. For these reasons, the evidence related to his awards does not demonstrate his sustained 
national acclaim in his field and indicate that he is currently among that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field. 
The Petitioner has also submitted evidence related to his membership in the China Theatre 
Association. The Petitioner initially submitted a membership certificate issued to him by the 
association in October 201 7, just prior to the filing of the petition, but later submitted a letter from a 
deputy director with the association who stated that he was admitted as a member in 2003. The record 
does not include an explanation for this apparent discrepancy in the Petitioner's date of admission to 
the association. 
With respect to the membership requirements, the Petitioner provided the China Theatre Association's 
2015 Constitution, its membership admission rules as of 2018, and the referenced letter from its deputy 
director. The association's constitution provides that membership is available to theater workers with 
"definite achievements in the field of drama art." The deputy director's letter states that "only those 
who have achieved the highest achievement in the industry and have national popularity can join the 
5 
China Theatre Association, otherwise they can only join the provincial or municipal theatre 
association." He further states that successful applicants for membership must have "national 
influence, receive performance award and [be] regarded as representative figures in their field of 
expertise." Finally, the association's membership admission rules provide that actors must have 
"senior titles" or be "individual winners of national drama awards or first prize winners in provincial 
... level awards." 
While all three of these descriptions of the association's membership requirements provide that 
prospective applicants are evaluated based on their achievements in theater, they do not describe these 
requirements consistently. Although the Petitioner claims that membership requires a national theater 
award as an achievement, there is no evidence that he himself had received such an award prior to 
2003, the admission date provided by the organization's deputy director. Nevertheless, even if we 
determined that the China Theater Association requires its members to have outstanding achievements, 
we cannot conclude based on the evidence presented that membership in this association is indicative 
of an individual's sustained national acclaim in the field, gamers an individual such acclaim, or that 
membership is reserved for those actors in the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
Regarding published material about him, the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted a 
qualifying article published in People's Daily in 2004. This interview with the Petitioner, published 
shortly after his receipt of thel IA ward and a~----~ Award nomination for his role in 
~------------' was supported by sufficient independent evidence to establish that the 
publication qualifies as major media. However, most of the ten submitted articles about the Petitioner 
were not accompanied by such evidence, as the Petitioner relied on user-edited encyclopedias like 
Wikipedia and Baiku, and the publications' own websites, without providing objective evidence that 
such publications enjoy high circulation or distribution in comparison in relation to others, or that they 
are professional or major trade media. 
Even if we determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to establish that all or most of 
the submitted articles had appeared in major media, the evidence does not establish that ten articles 
published over the course of a decades long career in the film and television industry is consistent with 
the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. As noted, a few of the submitted articles focus on the Petitioner's 
receipt of the 20041 !Award. Four of the articles relate to the Petitioner's role in the 2012 film 
I I and the Petitioner was interviewed by China TV Newspaper in connection with his role 
in the television serie~ I in 2009. The evidence also includes a 2002 article from Beijing 
Youth Daily in which he was interviewed about his film and television career and his return to live 
theatre, and a 2013 article from Netease Entertainment that discusses his role in the playc==J 
The only recent article, published on the website mp.weixin.qq.com, is a 2017 article titledL__j 
,___.,.....,....------~ This article, which appears to be a blog post attributed only to ..... l ====;I 
provides a career retrospective, highlighting some of the Petitioner's film roles from the mid-l 980s, 
his role inj~----~l and his role in a 2016 film~ ________ __,that is not mentioned 
elsewhere in the record. 
The submitted media coverage shows that the Petitioner has received media recognition for certain 
roles and projects during his career but does not demonstrate that he has enjoyed sustained national 
acclaim. The Petitioner works in a high-profile industry in which most, if not all, projects receive 
6 
media coverage to some extent. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in this field, he has 
not established how the submission of ten published articles about him demonstrates that he is among 
"that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of 
the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary 
ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive 
documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Finally, as it pertains to the Petitioner's service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability 
required for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner 
provided evidence showing that, in 2015, he served on the judging committee responsible for selecting 
the 15th Institute Award winners for the China Film Performing Arts Institute. However, the Petitioner 
did not establish that this single judging instance places him among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his judging experience 
compares to others at the top of the field, that the committee included only nationally acclaimed artists, 
or that the judging committee members received significant recognition in the field as a result of their 
participation. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The record reflects that the Petitioner has enjoyed a long career as a 
stage, film and television actor, is regarded as a talented performer, and has received some industry 
and press recognition with respect to a few of his projects over the years. However, the Petitioner 
seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are at the top of their 
respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of"extraordinary ability." 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11969687 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business executive in the specialty of wedding and event planning, seeks classification 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements of the classification through 
receiving a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is the founder and CEO ofl I ( dba I L a luxury weddinn and event planning company b;sed in I I, Brazil. The evidence 
shows that she has co-owned I since 2015, and been engaged in the event planning industry 
for several years prior. She states that she intends to continue working in this industry in the United 
States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the seven 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) that she claimed to in her initial filing and in 
response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the 
Director imposed novel evidentiary requirements in his analysis of the evidence, and that she meets 
all seven of the criteria she previously claimed. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we 
find that she does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on her, andl t, membership in the Brazilian 
Association of Social Events, known as ABRAFEST A. Although the evidence does not show when 
she first became a member of this association, copies of meeting minutes confirm that the Petitioner 
served as the ' from 2013 to 2015. 
2 
Several pieces of evidence were submitted regarding this association's membership requirements, 
including an undated letter titled "Membership Application Approval" and signed b~ I ~---------~I of ABRAFESTA. This document states that "Any company in the 
segment of parties and events can apply for an ABRAFESTA membership," and that the association's 
board members evaluate a candidate and determine approval by a majority vote. It also states under 
the heading of "analysis" simply that the board "position[ s] itself positively or negatively in relation 
to the membership," but provides no farther criteria used in this analysis. Further, it indicates that 
board members are "entrepreneurs from the events segment, from reputable companies with over 10 
years in the market." 
A second letter froml I this one dated January 27, 2020, states that associate members of the 
association must be companies or individuals in the events industry, be clear of tax and debt liabilities, 
submit three professional references, and be approved by a simple majority of the executive board. In 
addition, under a section entitled "ABRAFESTA Requires Outstanding Achievements of Their 
Members -Especially for Those Appointed as Members of its Executive Board," he writes that 
executive board membership requires that the candidate must have "a highly recognized and respected 
company in the industry" and "more than ten (10) years of experience in the industry," which appears 
to represent a different standard than that stated in his other letter. Also, a document described as 
ABRAFESTA's articles of association indicates in Article 13 that the executive board is elected by 
the shareholder's meeting, with all permanent members of the association having voting rights. 
Regarding the associate membership of the Petitioner and her company, on appeal she focuses onD I I list of the executive board members who reviewed her application. The list indicates that most 
own their own companies, which is also shown by the attached resumes. Although this evidence 
shows that they are all experienced business owners in the events industry, it does not establish that 
they are nationally or internationally recognized. More importantly, in asserting on appeal that 
ABRAFESTA does require outstanding achievements of its members, the Petitioner highlights the 
requirement that they be approved by a majority of the executive board. However, she does not explain 
how being approved, an action taken by others, can be considered as a member's outstanding 
achievement, nor does she assert that any of the other requirements for membership in the association 
rise to the requisite level. 
Turning to the Petitioner's membership on the association's executive board, we first note that we do 
not generally consider requirements consisting of a minimum level of education or experience in a 
field to be outstanding achievements. Such requirements reflect qualifications for employment in a 
particular job or industry and longevity, respectively, and therefore do not represent achievements 
which stand out from those of others in the field. Therefore, the requirement of 10 years of experience 
for ABRAFESTA's executive board members (whether as an individual or as an entrepreneur with a 
company) does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
In addition, whether the standard is that the executive member own a "reputable" company that has 
been in the events business for at least ten years, or that that company is "highly recognized and 
respected," Article 13 of ABRAFESTA's articles of association states that the judges applying that 
standard are the association's members, and the Petitioner has not demonstrated that all members are 
nationally or internationally recognized experts. 
3 
As neither the Petitioner's membership in ABRAFESTA, nor her selection to that organization's 
executive board, have been shown to require outstanding achievements, we find that she does not meet 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
As noted above, the evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has served on the executive board of 
ABRAFESTA, and that it is executive board members who vote to determine whether to accept new 
members. The requirements for membership in the association were noted in the section of1 I 
dated letter pertaining to that issue, as discussed above. Neither his undated letter, nor the association's 
articles, elaborate further on the requirements for membershil in ABRAFESTA. However, in another 
section of his dated letter pertaining to this criterion,! states that in deciding whether to accept 
a member, board members "discuss[ing] and judge[ing] the relevance and quality of the services of 
the candidate." However, the articles of the association and his two letters indicate that the application 
that is reviewed consists of a registration form, documents showing the establishment of an event 
planning business, a tax and debt clearance certificate, and three professional reference letters. There 
is no indication that the executive board members observe the work of the candidates first-hand in 
making the membership decision. Rather, the evidence shows that they rely upon the judgement of 
others as contained in the application package. Therefore, the Petitioner's service on ABRAFESTA's 
executive board does not meet the requirements of this criterion. 1 
The Petitioner also asserts her work as a lecturer in the MBA program o±1 I University 
I rl involved judging the work of others in her field. In a reference letter, the dean and founder of I . . I, writes that in this role, the Petitioner "lectures on the luxury 
events market and how to get into the business," and "is responsible for preparing and drafting the 
evaluation process and reports on her students based on their performance." However, the letter does 
not provide detail regarding the Petitioner's evaluation of the students' work in the field, as opposed 
to academic study. While the Petitioner argues on appeal that the students in this program are already 
professionals in the field, the record does not include evidence showing that she judged the 
performance of their work in the event planning industry. Rather, she submitted an email in which 
she presented two questions to be added to a written exam, demonstrating that she took part in judging 
the students' academic performance. 
Because the evidence does not establish that she judged the work of others in her field, we agree with 
the Director and find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
1 The Petitioner asserts that because the Director did not elaborate on this portion of her claim under this criterion, she 
effectively meets this criterion. However, we note that the Director ultimately found that she did not meet this criterion, 
and after reviewing the evidence in the record we agree with this finding. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. See Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 134. For example, a petitioner may show that the original contributions have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have 
otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
The Petitioner initially based her claim to this criterion upon her contribution to ABRAFESTA's Code 
of Conduct. In support of this claim, she submitted copies of emails from the association, the Code of 
Conduct itself: and reference letters. This evidence indicates that she was one of 26 professionals who 
formed a committee to review and discuss an existing version of this document, and after a meeting 
on June 14, 2010, "approved minor amendments" to the document. Regarding her work on this 
committee,....._ ________ ....,. who describes herself as a photographer and former event planner, 
writes that the Petitioner "was a pivotal part in the creation, development and promotion of 
ABRAFESTA' s Code of Conduct," but provides no detail about the Petitioner's contributions to this 
document or the basis of her knowledge of these contributions. I I in another undated letter, 
states that the association "began codifying a practice manual," and that he observed the Petitioner's 
"tenacity and stamina," but also does not provide detail about her role in developing or amending the 
Code of Conduct. Therefore, this evidence is not sufficient to show that the Petitioner made an original 
contribution to her field through her participation on this committee. 
In her response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also presented additional evidence and asserted 
that articles that she had written about processes, procedures and methods in the event planning 
industry were registered in the Brazilian National Library, "which assists other professionals in 
improving their services." The evidence submitted in support of this assertion includes a certificate 
ofregistration from the National Library Foundation concerning a book (not several, as the Petitioner 
asserts) authored by the Petitioner: I I We note that the 
certificate states that the book has not been published. In addition, another document titled "Copyright 
Assignment" lists 59 "texts" authored by the Petitioner which she assigned to the website I I I t but does not mention whether these were also registered with the national library. 
Further, the previously discussed letter froml I repeats the assertion that several of the 
Petitioner's articles and guides were registered in the national library, and states that the resulting 
availability of these articles "has been a major benchmark for the industry, since other professionals 
are able to have access to industry standards, techniques and methods ... " However, the availability 
of articles, guides or books authored by the Petitioner and pertaining to the event planning industry, 
whether registered with the Brazilian National Library or posted on a website, does not establish that 
these materials have had a widespread impact on the industry or that any processes, procedures or 
methods contained within have been widely implemented. I ldoes not state that her previous 
event planning career was impacted by the availability of these writings, and does not provide 
specificity regarding the impact they may have had on others in the industry. 
The Petitioner further claims on appeal that her contribution to the bookl ~ was an original 
contribution to her field, but the record includes little evidence regarding either the book or the extent 
of any contribution to the event planning industry. A link to a webpage in the Petitioner's initial brief 
5 
shows that she is one of four individuals listed under "original idea" on the cover of the book, while a 
fifth person is listed as the author. I I another of the individuals listed on the cover, states that 
the book "forever changed the way the general public perceived the event planning industry," and 
states that a company called I acquired the copyright to produce a film based upon 
the book. However, while this evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner contributed to this original 
work, the record lacks evidence to support! I's statements regarding any success the book may 
have had or its impact upon the event planning industry. 
Based upon our review of the evidence above, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submitted copies of several articles authored by her in support of this criterion. These 
articles generally presented tips for conducting wedding and debutant receptions, and were published 
in the magazines Go 'Where Noiva, Noivas & Noivos, and Debutantes. In his decision, the Director 
noted that scholarly articles are generally written for learned persons in the field, which includes all 
persons having profound knowledge of a field. 2 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that these articles 
were written for learned individuals in her field, event planning, and were published in magazines 
targeted not towards the general public but "for a niche audience in specialized wedding and event 
planning ... " However, after review we find that the evidence does not support this assertion. 
For example, the website of the Go'Where publishing house states that the mission of its magazines 
are to offer content "to a unique audience that knows how to enjoy the bright side oflife." In addition, 
another page of this website states that the one of the main objectives of the publisher's customized 
magazines is "to build a strong connection with customers, suppliers, and society at large." This 
website does not indicate that the magazines are targeted only towards professionals in the "luxury, 
gastronomy and lifestyle market," but also to consumers. 
Similarly, the website for the magazine Noivas & Noivos states that it "is intended primarily for the 
female audience." And the "letter to the reader" in the magazine Guia Amais Noivas, for which the 
Petitioner also wrote an article, states that "[O]ur goal is to help the lovebirds in this important stage 
of their lives ... " 
As the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner's articles are written for learned persons in the 
field of event planning, we conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFAf) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner's work was displayed, and that that display occurred 
within an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature. In his decision, the Director considered 
the evidence regarding the Petitioner's appearance on the television showl I 
I ~ as well as her role as founder and partner forl I but found that this criterion 
does not apply to actors and executives. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that the regulation does not 
include this restriction, and that it is her body of work as an event planner that is on display in the 
television show and in marriage celebrations she has organized, not her acting or business skills. 
We agree that the plain language of this criterion does not limit the type of work being displayed, but 
requires that it be that of the petitioner and in his or her field. Here, regarding private marriage 
receptions that she has organized, the Petitioner has not established that it is her work that is being 
displayed. The website of I lstates that the company's role is "idealization, organization, 
planning, integrating each hired service, supplier, up to the coordination of the whole event." From 
the viewpoint of the attendees, it is the work of those suppliers (DJs, florists, chefs, etc.) that is 
displayed, not that of the Petitioner. In addition, she has not demonstrated that a marriage ceremony 
and reception is an artistic exhibition or showcase, as opposed to a religious or civil ceremony and 
celebration. 
Turning to the Petitioner's work for the television show, the evidence does demonstrate that it is her 
work as an event planner that is being displayed. Specifically, the press release from thel I I I television channel indicates that the show focuses on the work of the Petitioner and 
her partner "done on the final stretch of the organization of a wedding." However, the Petitioner has 
not shown that this television show is an artistic exhibition or display, rather than one done for 
entertainment and commercial purposes. 
As the Petitioner has not established that her work as an event planner has been displayed in artistic 
exhibitions or showcases, we conclude that she does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, published material, and 
original contributions. Although she claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, relating to 
published media about her at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and leading or critical role at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot 
fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve 
these issues. 3 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24. 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12846851 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an acrobatic performer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner has a qualifying one-time achievement (a major, 
internationally recognized award), or that he meets at least three of the ten alternate evidentiary criteria 
for this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an acrobatic gymnastics athlete who competed for I I in international 
competition between 2009 and 2015. Since 2016, he has been employed as an acrobatic performer in 
several circus arts roductions. C\mentl he is a memberof the cast oft I a live show f roducedl 
b which is in residence at 
,..__ _ __,ln~---~ 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), and therefore must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. Specifically, the Director concluded that the Petitioner met the criteria related to 
lesser nationally and internationally recognized awards and high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
and (ix). The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's claim that he met the criteria related to 
membership in an association that requires outstanding achievements at 8 C.F.R. § 204.4(h)(3)(ii), and 
performing in a leading or critical role for an organization that has a distinguished reputation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the Director concluded that the evidence did not demonstrate 
that he meets either of these criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has received a major, internationally recognized award in 
the sport of acrobatic gymnastics and can satisfy the initial evidence requirement based on this award 
alone. The Petitioner farther claims that he meets four of the alternate evidentiary criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that 
he garnered a major, internationally recognized award or that he satisfies the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
2 
A. One-time Achievement 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner received a bronze medal in the b ~crobatic 
gymnastics event at the Ow orld Games competition held in I I in The etitioner 
contends that the Director erred in failing to recognize this medal as a major, internationally recognized 
award consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The evidence establishes that the World Games competition is officially recognized by the 
international governing body of the sport of gymnastics (International Gymnastics Federation or FIG). 
The evidence also demonstrates that acrobatic gymnastics, unlike several other gymnastic disciplines, 
is not an Olympic sport, and that the World Games (as well as World Championship and World Cup 
competitions) represent the highest level of international competition in acrobatics. 
In determining that the Petitioner did not establish that his bronze medal at the World Games 
constitutes a qualifying one-time achievement, the Director acknowledged that acrobatic gymnastics 
is not an Olympic sport. Nevertheless, the Director noted that "USCIS considers a one-time 
achievement in your field of athletics to be an Olympic Medal." 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that since acrobatic gymnastics is not an Olympic sport, an 
Olympic medal is not an applicable example of a major international award in his field, which he 
maintains is acrobatic gymnastics and not "athletics" in general. The Petitioner argues that, since 
many athletes are not eligible to compete in the Olympics based on their field, an Olympic medal 
should not be the only example of a qualifying one-time achievement in athletics. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) provides that "[s]uch evidence shall include evidence of a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major internal[ly] recognized award)." While the regulation does not 
identify any qualifying award, the House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example 
of a one-time achievement. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 
U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. We have consistently recognized other examples of 
a one-time achievement including the Pulitzer Prize, an Academy Award, and an Olympic medal. 
Further, we must look to Congress' intent that "admission under this category is to be reserved for that 
small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor." Id. Thus, 
consistent with legislative history, a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with 
only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. 
We note that the selection of Nobel Laureates, the example provided by Congress indicated above, is 
reported in the top media internationally regardless of the nationality of the awardees, reflects a 
familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. While an internationally 
recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement without meeting all of those 
elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award must be global in scope 
and internationally recognized, not just acknowledged within the field as its highest award. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted several major media articles about the World Games, 
but this evidence does not establish that medals awarded at this event are accorded the same 
recognition associated with a one-time achievement or major, internationally recognized award. In 
fact, some the articles indicate the World Games' lesser recognition or standing. For example, an 
3 
article published by PRI (pri.org) about the 2009 World Games refers to it as "an obscure sporting 
event run under the patronage of the Olympic Committee but featuring non-Olympic sports" and notes 
that the World Games' motto "The World is Watching," was "clearly an overstatement or wishful 
thinking -no U.S. broadcaster picked up the games." The submitted media articles do not indicate 
that individual medal winners at the World Games receive broad major media recognition 
commensurate with that received by winners of Nobel Prizes, Olympic medals, Academy Awards or 
other major internationally recognized awards. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that this 
international event is recognized by the general public at a similar level. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner received a bronze medal at one of the major international competitions 
in acrobatic gymnastics, he did not establish that receipt of such an award necessarily qualifies as a 
one-time achievement, nor are we persuaded that the top award in any field qualifies as a one-time 
achievement. The fact that a major, internationally recognized award, such as an Olympic Medal, may 
not exist in a specific field does not mean that we should diminish the impressive nature of the one­
time achievement and accept a lesser award. In cases where one cannot obtain a one-time 
achievement, including instances where it is not available in a field, they "can also qualify on the basis 
of a career of acclaimed work in the field" by satisfying three of the ten categories of evidence. See 
H.R. Rep. at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Moreover, awards that may be internationally recognized 
in the field do not necessarily demonstrate that they are also major or consistent with one-time 
achievements. In those instances, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) allows for a petitioner to 
submit lesser internationally recognized awards for excellence in the field. 
For these reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
As noted, the Petitioner claims that he has submitted evidence to satisfy the criteria related to lesser 
nationally and internationally recognized awards, membership in an organization that requires 
outstanding achievements, perfo1ming in a critical role for an organization with a distinguished 
reputation, and commanding a high salary. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (viii) and (ix). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted evidence to satisfy this criterion. The record 
supports this conclusion. In addition to his bronze medal at thee=] World Games discussed above, 
the Petitioner provided evidence that he received bronze and silver medals at the c=J European 
Championship in acrobatic gymnastics, a bronze medal at theD_EI oprn Cham pt onshif' and gold 
medals at the Sports Acrobatics Championship~ I inLJ, , c=J and 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
4 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as a former member of the I IN ational Senior 
Sports Acrobatics Team. A petitioner's participation as a member of a national team may demonstrate 
eligibility for this criterion, as such teams typically limit their number of members and have a rigorous 
selection process. It is the Petitioner's burden, however, to demonstrate that he meets every element of a 
given criterion. We will not assume that every "national team" is sufficiently exclusive and requires 
outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international experts in 
their fields or disciplines. 
Here, the Petitioner provided an attestation froml I Vice President of the 
Gymnastics Federation. I I confirms that the Petitioner was a member of th .--~~.........,f-N-a-t-io_n_a__Jl 
Senior Sports Acrobatics Team from July 2010 until December 2015 and represented I~--~ 
internationally in the men's group program. With respect to the team membership requirements, he states: 
In order to be included in thel !National Sports Acrobatics Team athletes must, 
at the minimum, be national champions in at least one program. In order to maintain his 
or her membership ... athletes must continue placing first at national sports acrobatics 
championships and cups. 
[The Petitioner] received numerous top place awards at I I national sports 
acrobatics championship anl is a several time sports acrobatics national champion and 
medalist in the years o toe=] These awards, as well as his international awards, 
secured [his] membership in the National Team for the time period specified above . 
.__ ___ __.I identifies members of the panel of judges at "the I I National Sports Acrobatics 
Championship where [the Petitioner] competed, secured first places and as a result earned membership 
in the National Team." 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter froml I of the World Olympic Gymnastics 
Academy, a Latvian native who coaches U.S.-based gymnastics and claims no affiliation with the I I Gymnastics Federation. I I states that "[ a ]thletes must earn their membership 
[ on a national team] through rigorous selection at national championships" and that the Petitioner 
"secured his place in thel !National Team when he won gold medals at national championships 
and cups." 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director acknowledged the letter from the I I Gymnastics 
Federation, but determined that the Petitioner had provided "no evidence" that he is a member of an 
association that requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines. The Director asked that the Petitioner submit additional 
information, such as the association's constitution or bylaws, noting that the Petitioner must also establish 
that those responsible for admitting members are recognized national or international experts. In response 
to the RFE, Petitioner referred the Director to review the letters froml I andl I 
5 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not properly weigh these letters or acknowledge that 
membership on thel !National Sports Acrobatics Team requires outstanding achievements of its 
members by only accepting national champions in the sport. We note that the Director stated in the denial 
that "[r]equirements that only include employment or activity in a given field; minimum education, 
experience or achievement, recommendations by colleagues or current members; or payment of dues do 
not satisfy this criterion." The Petitioner correctly notes that he did not claim or provide evidence that his 
membership on the national team in his sport was based on any of these factors. We also note that the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner provided "no evidence" of the requirements for membership 
was incorrect, given the contents of I ts letter, quoted above, and his position within the I !Gymnastics Federation. 
However, the Petitioner relies solely on the above-referenced letters in support of his claim that 
membership on the team requires an outstanding achievement, i.e., a national championship. Only 
one of the letters is from a person associated with the sport's national federation, and neither is 
sufficiently specific with respect to the national team membership requirements or selection processes. 
Notably, the record does not contain corroborating evidence, such as a translated copy of the ofiicial rules 
or selection procedures from the bylaws or constitution of thel I Gymnastics Federation, even 
though the Director specifically requested this type of evidence in the RFE. 
Therefore, we conclude that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that his 
membership on the I I national team satisfies all elements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion based on his role as a performer in thej ~ --~lshow. 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 1 The Petitioner's performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical 
for the organization or establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner submitted a letter from~I _____ _.I of.__ _________ _, ~---~ 
production company, who states: 
Inl I [the Petitioner] performs along with his partners seemingly impossible, 
gravity-defying feats, exhibiting the strength, flexibility and balance of a world-class 
acrobatic gymnasts. [The Petitioner's] act is a jewel of the entire production and it is 
definitely one of the audience's most favorite. The image capturing [the Petitioner's] 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJ 1-14 IO (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
amazing acrobatic routines had been used extensively in show promotions -from 
billboards acros~ I to advertisements on city cabs to gigantic screens lighting 
upl I As a starring member of the cast, he clearly plays a critical role for the 
entire production, contributing greatly to the commercial and artistic success of 
I 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml I, a head coach with I O IEntertainment 
Group, who states that he has seen the Petitioner's performance inl land "can confirm that he does 
play a critical role in this show and is a critical member of the show's acrobatic troupe," noting that "the 
audience alwa s reacts in awe to his erformances." Similarly,! I head acrobatics 
coach withL-----r-----,_ _ ____J states that the Petitioner "has been in the spotlight of the 
internationally acclaime_,__ __ __.show," notes that he has seen his performance, and "can attest to his 
role in this show as in fact critical." I I further states that he performs in a "key, featured 
act" that "would be impossible without his contribution." 
The Director acknowledged this evidence, but found that the letters provided did not provide detailed and 
probative information that specifically addressed how the Petitioner's role is leading or critical to the 
extent that he is responsible for an organization's success or standing to a degree consistent with the 
meaning of "leading or critical." The Director noted that the Petitioner did not submit evidence that 
distinguished him from other performers in the production and observed that he did not provide any 
additional evidence in response to the RFE. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the submitted letters 
are sufficient to establish that his role is critical tol lwhich he refers to as "an artistic venue of 
distinguished reputation." 
The evidence establishes that I I is an acclaimed live production but does not establish that it is an 
"organization or establishment" as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The Petitioner is remunerated 
for his services by one of the show's production companiel'J I The Petitioner 
has not claimed or submitted evidence to establish that he serves in a leading or critical role for this 
organization as a whole as a member of the acrobatic troupe in one of its productions. 
Further, even if we concluded thatl I is an "organization or establishment," we agree with the 
Director's determination that the letter from the show's producer does not contain detailed and probative 
information that specificall] addresses how the Petitioner's performance in his role is leading or critical 
to the show. I states that the Petitioner's act is "a jewel of the entire production" and an 
audience favorite and notes that the act appears in the show's promotional materials. However, the record 
does not contain, for example, critical reviews mentioning the Petitioner's act or copies of the referenced 
advertising. We acknowledge his statement that the Petitioner is a "starring member of the cast," but the 
record does not include evidence that would allow a comparison of the Petitioner's four-person act to that 
of other performers in the show, such that we could determine that he has a lead role. I lalso 
does not provide any further explanation for his statement that the Petitioner has been "contributing 
greatly to the commercial and artistic success ofj I" 
The testimonial evidence establishes that the Petitioner is a talented acrobatic performer whose technical 
skills are critical to his specific group act inl I but do not establish how this act, or the Petitioner 
individually, serves in a critical role for the overall production to the extent that his performance is of 
7 
significant importance to the outcome of its activities. For these reasons, the Petitioner has not established 
that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met this criterion. For the reasons discussed below, we will 
withdraw that determination. 
The Petitioner provided copies of his pay statements and his IRS Form 1099-Misc, Miscellaneous 
Income, indicating thatj I a producer ofl I paid him $98,240 in 2019. 
The Petitioner's Performer Agreement with~-------~indicates that he is paid $1,000 for 
each "rehearsal week" (up to six weeks per year) and $1,800 per "performance week." According to 
the agreement's terms, a "performance week" includes up to ten performances per week, as well as up 
to 10 hours of rehearsals, and all pre-and post-show activities required by the producer. The 
agreement does not identify an hourly rate of pay. 
The Petitioner emphasizes that his pay statements show demonstrate that he receives an hourly wage 
of $180 and works 10 hours per week. While most of these statements indicate a "show" rate of $180 
and state that he is compensated for 10 hours per week at this rate, as noted, his performer agreement 
does not identify an hourly rate or indicate that he is paid by the hour. Based on the terms of the 
agreement, the Petitioner's $1800 weekly rate requires him to devote significantly more than 10 hours 
per week to the I I production. The record therefore does not support a conclusion that he 
receives an hourly pay of $180, nor can we determine his actual hourly pay absent a more detailed 
breakdown of how many hours he works per week. 
The Petitioner provided comparative wage data from several sources in support of his claim that he 
has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field. Data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
Statistics (BLS) show that "Entertainers and Performers, Sports and Related Workers, All Other" 
earned a mean hourly wage of $21.53, with the top ten percent earning at least $42.47 Jer hour, 
nationally, in 2018. The submitted BLS data also shows that mean wages inl a more 
appropriate comparison based on the Petitioner's work location, are $48.95, but the Petitioner did not 
provide data regarding high wage earners in this geographic area. Nevertheless, for the reasons 
discussed above, the evidence provided does not clearly identify the Petitioner's hourly wage or the 
number of hours he works per week. 
Information the Petitioner obtained from Payscale indicates that the average circus performer earns 
an annual salary of $39,548, with the top 10% of earners receiving $70,000 or more annually in salary 
and "total pay" as high as $87,000. However, we note that this data is based on information obtained 
from only 14 individuals and may not reliably represent industry salaries, particularly in thd I 
metropolitan area where, according to the BLS data discussed above, average hourly wages are more 
than twice the national average. 
The third and final source the Petitioner provided is an article titled "Becoming a Circus Performer" 
published by the website KidzWorld in December 2017. The article features an interview with a 
8 
Cirque du Soleil acrobat and dancer who indicates that she is required to work "a lot oflong hours and 
weekends." The article states that "featured performers like acrobats, contortionists or trapeze artists 
can make between $40,000 and $70,000 a year" but does not cite a source for these figures. 
Although the Petitioner emphasizes that an hourly wage provides the most appropriate comparison to 
others in his occupation, the evidence does not clearly establish what he earns on an hourly basis, or 
how many hours he works per week. Nor did he provide sufficient evidence that would allow us to 
compare his wages to those earned by others in similar positions in the same geographic area. 
For these reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the high salary 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12798759 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an orthopedic surgeon, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria for this classification , of which he must meet at 
least three. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden 
and we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an orthopedic surgeon who specializes in shoulder repair and reconstruction and 
upper extremity trauma. The Petitioner received his bachelor's degree at the University I I 
and his Doctor of Medicine atl I University in 2010. He concluded his residency through the 
University! Is orthopedic surgery training pfograj in 2015 and subsequently completed a 
shoulder arthroscopy and reconstruction fellowship in France, followed by a combined trauma 
and upper extremit] fellowship at the University! I Since 2018, he has been employed by 
Thel in Arizona. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Petitioner claims to meet the following criteria: 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional publications; 
• (viii), Performing in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria. The record reflects 
that the Petitioner has authored articles published in Nature Medicine, Journal of Shoulder and Elbow 
Surgery and other professional publications, as well as textbook chapters. Accordingly, we agree that 
he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Director also determined that the Petitioner 
established that he has commanded a high salary in relation to others in his field, pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
204.5(h)(3)(ix). Based on evidence of the Petitioner's earnings withl lin 2018, we 
will not disturb this determination. 
2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the two remaining claimed criteria and is otherwise 
eligible for the classification sought. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that 
the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three 
criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner maintains that he has made several original contributions of major significance in his field 
as evidenced by his publication in journals and textbooks, citations to his work by other researchers, his 
participation in seminars and conferences, and testimonial letters. In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but 
that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For example, a petitioner may show that their 
contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or 
influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner references his submission of letters from colleagues and other experts in 
orthopedic surgery regarding his original contributions in his field, asserting that the Director did not 
give sufficient weight to this evidence. The letters summarize the Petitioner's research achievements 
and some of them discuss its impact or potential impact in broad terms. However, they do not establish 
that his original contributions are already recognized as majorly significant within his field. 
For example,.__ ______ ____,a professor of surgery at University! I indicates that he 
knew the Petitioner during his residency and fellowship at the university and has collaborated with 
him on clinical cases, research studies and publications. He credits the Petitioner with the first study 
to examine "the outcomes of patents who have undergone operative treatment for elbow stiffness 
following I ffractures," and states that he "was able 
to confirm that it is relatively safe to perform this procedure at an average of 18 months post­
operatively." 
~---_____.!emphasizes that "[ w ]ith this knowledge in hand, orthopaedic surgeons from around the 
world are able to provide improved counseling and make evidence-based decisions when treating this 
unique patient population." However, this general statement regarding the influence of the Petitioner's 
study is not adequately supported in the record. For example, it is not clear whether the Petitioner has 
published an article, book chapter or presentation on this topic that has been cited by others. We 
cannot determine based on the limited information provided that this study remarkably influenced 
clinical practice for a specific patient population. I I also mentions that the Petitioner, during 
his fellowship in France, learned a number of innovative and advanced techniques in shoulder and 
elbow surgery such as arthroscopic! J I repair and~-------~shoulder arthroplasty, 
but he does not indicate that the Petitioner developed new surgical techniques or explain how his 
training in such existing techniques, however innovative or advanced, would be considered an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
I a professor of orthopedic surgery at University I I and staff surgeon aO 
,,__ ___ _,I_H_o_s_p_i-ta .... l, states that he observed the Petitioner during his clinical fellowship, which 
followed his initial fellowship in France. He explains that, while in France, the Petitioner "developed 
a specialty interest" in shoulder arthroplasty techniques which are "cutting edge and not widely 
available." Specifically, he states that the Petitioner "has made significant contributions to the field 
of OrthopeTc Surrry through his work on shoulder arthroplasty ~-------~ and 
arthroscopic procedures." I I describes the procedures, explains why they are 
considered particularly innovative, and describes the substantial benefits to patients. He further opines 
that "[p ]ossessing these skills is of major significance because so few other surgeons are able to 
perform these procedures, especially in the United States" and notes that the Petitioner's "ability to 
describe and perform these complex procedures provides patients with state-of-the art care and the 
best possible outcomes." However, likel l thel l's letter does not establish that 
the Petitioner's completion of specialty training in innovative techniques and his performance of these 
techniques amounts to an original contribution that has remarkably impacted or influenced his field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is a highly trained and skilled surgeon, but these traits do not 
lead to a conclusion that he has satisfied this criterion. 
,:;.A~le::::.:t::..:::te:::;:;r.....;f:c:cr~om=I ==,-----.----~I an orthopedic surgeon who completed a specialty fellowship at The 
I also speaks to the Petitioner's "extremely rare skill set, even for a specialty 
physician." He notes that only a small number of orthopedic surgeons "go on to do specialty shoulder 
reconstruction fellowships" and that the Petitioner himself has completed two of the most prestigious 
fellowships available. also describes the Petitioner's "extensive exferience and skill in 
performing the.__ __ _.procedure" noting that no more than ten surgeons in the _ I 
have a comparable amount of training and experience with this technique. However, as already 
discussed, having an unusual or unique skill set is not a contribution of major significance in-and-of­
itself Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those 
skills and abilities to impact the field at a significant level. We do not doubt that the Petitioner is well-
equipped to offer highly specialized medical treatment to.__ ______ ____.s patients. However, 
regardless of the field of endeavor, the plain language of the phrase "contributions of major significance 
in the field" requires evidence of an impact beyond one's employer and clients or customers. See 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134-135 (D.D.C. 2013) . 
.__ __ _.Is letter also mentions the Petitioner's research on reverse shoulder arthroplasty I I 
surgery in fracture I I patients. He notes that this research "has garnered international praise" 
and explains that, prior to the publication of the Petitioner's study "patients with I I fractures 
. . . were difficult to classify and treat." In describing its significance, I I states that the 
Petitioner's study enabled classification of this patient population and suggested the most appropriate 
surgery based on this classification. The evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner co-authored a 
chapter titled~----------------------------- ............... 
in the book Shoulder Concepts: Reverse Shoulder Arthroplasty, in 2016. According to the Petitioner's 
curriculum vitae, he also presented this research at the 2016 I !Course, at theB ECEC­
ES SE Colgress (wyre he received thel~---~kward in 2017), and at the SOFCO Annual 
Meeting. states that, as a result of the Petitioner's study "we are able to better treat this 
complex patient population," but the record lacks any additional evidence that the Petitioner's study 
has already influenced clinical practices or has been received as a contribution of major impact or 
influence in the field. The fact that he was invited to present the work at three conferences supports 
4 
its originality and may speak to its potential importance, but the record does not contain, for example, 
evidence that his book chapter or conference presentations have garnered any citations. 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml I who heads the University Institute 
of Locomotion and Sports at the Universityl land supervised the Petitioner's overseas fellowship 
in 2015 to 2016. I lstates that, during his fellowship, the Petitioner performed "profound 
and groundbreaking research" which focused on the results of patients who had undergone 
arthroscopic shoulder stabilization with a novel arthroscopid !technique. Specifically, he states 
that the Petitioner demonstrated that the technique "provides low rates of recurrence of instability, 
with a low complication rate and high patient satisfaction." I !emphasizes that "this research 
was very important to the field of orthopaedics" and notes that, as a result of the Petitioner 
demonstrating the efficacy and safety of the technique, "patients will benefit from having less invasive 
arthroscopic surgery compared to traditional, 'open' surgery." However, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated the impact or influence of his study on the field; he did not develop this technique but 
only studied its long-term patient outcomes. The record does not establish, for example, that the 
Petitioner or his research has been credited with the increased use of the arthroscopic! I 
technique or it has already been widely adopted in the field.I I observes that the Petitioner 
published his research in The Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Research and states that "only the most 
impactful and well-established research" is chosen for publication in scholarly journals. However, the 
record reflects that the Petitioner's 201 7 article had been cited by others only one time at the time the 
petition was filed in 2020. 
Overall, the letters recognize highly praise the Petitioner's abilities and discuss the prospective benefit 
of the Petitioner's work, but do not contain detailed information showing the unusual influence or high 
impact the Petitioner's contributions have already had on the overall field. The letters show that the 
Petitioner's original work has added value to the pool of knowledge in his highly specialized field and 
assisted in confirming the viability of newer advanced surgical techniques that may encourage their 
increased implementation. The evidence, however, is insufficient to confirm that the level of attention 
he has received reflects widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the orthopedic 
field has regarded his research as authoritative. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 2 On 
the other hand, letters that lack specifics do not add the same value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 3 
As noted, the Petitioner did not solely submit recommendation letters and we have considered the 
opinions alongside evidence of his publication history, citations to his work, and his participation in 
conferences and symposia in his field. Regarding his citations, the Petitioner provided a summary 
from Google Scholar demonstrating that his five published journal articles and one of his textbook 
chapters have been cited by others. 4 Of these, two publications ernered five or fewer citations, three 
were cited between 31 and 3 7 times, and one publication, titled O O O O O I I I' published in Nature Medicine in 2009, was cited 243 times. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
3 Id. at 9. 
4 The record does not demonstrate that his other publications have generated citations. 
5 
It is the Petitioner's burden to identify his original contributions and explain why they are of major 
significance in the field. Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has taken interest 
in a petitioner's research or written work. Here, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance or 
relevance of the citations to his articles. Although his citations are indicative that his research has 
received some attention from the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that citation numbers to his 
individual articles represent majorly significant contributions in the field. 5 
On appeal, he emphasizes that his research has been cited "over 200 times," suggesting that this rate 
of citation alone is sufficient to satisfy this criterion. However, he has not submitted a comparative 
ranking to average citation rates for articles in his field in support of his claim that 200 or more citations 
is indicative of a published article's reception as a major contribution in the field. An appropriate 
analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner's citations to other similarly, highly cited 
articles, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." 
The Petitioner also emphasized that some of his publications have appeared in highly ranked journals. 
A publication that bears a high ranking or impact factor is reflective of the publication's overall citation 
rate. It does not, however, demonstrate an individual author's influence or the impact of research on 
the field. While we acknowledge that prestigious status of Nature Medicine, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that publication of his article in this or any other specific journal establishes that the 
field considers his research to be an original contribution of major significance. Here, although the 
Petitioner provided evidence that his Nature Medicine article was cited 243 times since its publication 
in 2009, we note that this article is only mentioned in passing in one of the submitted recommendation 
letters. an orthopedic surgeon and associate professor at the University D 
~--~ notes that this publication "has provided a basis for further scientific work" that may 
eventually lead to a medical cure for osteoarthritis, but this brief statement does not explain in 
sufficient detail how the publication has been received in the field as an original contribution of major 
significance or how it has remarkably impacted research in the 11 years since its publication. 
The Petitioner also submitted samples of other articles that cited to his work, but we cannot determine 
that they distinguish his publications from the other articles cited by the same authors. Further, the 
articles do not show the significance of the Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors 
who cited to his work. 6 While the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting the originality of his work 
through co-authored publications reporting his research findings, he has not demonstrated that the 
overall field views his research and work as being majorly significant. 
Likewise, the record contains evidence of the Petitioner's attendance and participation at international 
conferences but did not demonstrate how these activities resulted in contributions of major 
significance in the field. Like publications, conference presentations alone are not sufficient under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they involved original contributions of "major 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, may 
be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor). 
6 Id at 8-9; see also Visinscaia. 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
6 
significance." Here, the Petitioner argues that the Director's decision "ignores [his] role as a faculty 
member at the prestigious! lcourse and presentations at other medical symposia." In his 
letter,! I confirms his participation in this 2016 international course attended by over one 
thousand shoulder surgeons. I I notes that the Petitioner presented his work on the five-year 
results of reverse shoulder arthroplasty in patients I I noting 
that attendees "learned how to avoid complications through [the Petitioner's] work." He also confirms 
that the Petitioner demonstrated "unique and advanced surgical technique including the arthroscopic I I and knot-tying." He does not explain, however, how the Petitioner's contributions at the 
conference are recognized in the field as remarkably influential or impactfol. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner argues that he performs in critical role for I I in his position as an 
orthopedic surgeon. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or 
was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, 
leading. 7 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in 
a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether 
the role is or was critical. 8 
The Director observed that the Petitioner submitted two letters 9 from I ~ Vice 
Chairman,'--------~ and information regarding the organization. He acknowledged the 
valuable work the Petitioner performs for the institute. However, the Director determined that the 
evidence did not establish that the Petitioner has been responsible for.__ ______ __, s success 
or standing "to a degree consistent with the meaning of 'leading or critical role."' 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director overlooked or mischaracterized ~ I's 
statements and asserts that the evidence was sufficient to establish how his role is critical~ I I I as a whole. The Petitioner highlights portions ofl b letter, emphasizing that his 
employer confirmed that he sets "the clinical standards for shoulder and elbow surgery for [the] 
organization," oversees the institute's "upper extremity clinical pathways," and has "led and instituted 
multiple nationally fonded research studies." Finally, the Petitioner emphasizes the following 
statement froml I 
Without [the Petitioner's] exceptional contributions,.__ ______ __.would not 
have had such successes in these fields. We are considered a leader in the orthopedic 
surgery field because of [the Petitioner's] work with us. Moreover, his expertise 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 The initial evidence included a letter from 2017 which pre-dated the Petitioner's employment with~I -----~ 
The second letter, dated March 2020, was submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence. 
7 
continues to serve the community's best interests in providing top surgical and patient 
care as evidence by his great patient reviews and accolades. 
The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from~------~s website indicating that it has been 
"recognized as the number one orthopedic group five years and running byl ~' An 
article from 2015 mentions that I I had 150 care providers and 26 facilities in two 
states at that time. 
In his letter,I !highlights the Petitioner's clinical leadership duties, noting that he "oversees 
a very busy and complex shoulder and elbow specialty practice" and "leads the Shoulder Service" for 
his clinical site." He also emphasizes that while most clinicians are not significantly engaged in 
research activities, the Petitioner "has demonstrated the ability to differentiate himself from his peers 
by remaining a leader in such efforts." I I also notes that the Petitioner is a "critical 
contributor" to thel I Research Group, where he "spearheads 
numerous important studies." In addition, he highlights that the Petitioner is a frequently invited 
lecturer and leads activities for surgeons in training, noting that he "clearly goes above and beyond 
the typical busy clinician." 
While this letter establishes that the Petitioner is a valued contributor to ~I------~~ s shoulder 
practice, the evidence does not establish that his role is leading based on his placement within the 
I Is hierarchy. Nor does the does the evidence demonstrate that the work he performs is critical 
to the outcome of the organization's activities as a whole. Although! I implies that the 
Petitioner is unique within the organization based on the breadth of his clinical, research and lecturing 
activities,! l's website places considerable emphasis on the multi-faceted activities 
of its surgeons, noting that they are ~---------~speakers who continue to publish 
journal articles and book chapters," actively engaged in research, and involved in training other 
surgeons in "new surgical techniques." The Petitioner also submitted a screenshot froml I 
I Is website describing its partnership withl I which emphasizes that 
many "fellowship trained physicians atl !routinely participate in clinical research 
trials and laboratory-based studies." Overall, many of the attributes and responsibilities that are 
claimed to distinguish the Petitioner from his colleagues appear to be typical expectations for the 
institute's specialty physicians and surgeons. 
Finally, while we acknowledge thatl I attributes! ts standing and success 
in the orthopedic surgery field to the individual efforts of the Petitioner, the record reflects that the 
practice enjoyed a top ranking iq land national recognition in the years prior to his recruitment. 
As I ldid not elaborate, we cannot determine whether the Petitioner's position as an 
orthopedic surgeon has impacted the outcome of the organization's overall activities in a manner that 
satisfies the "critical role" element of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
B. 0-1 Classification 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner has been granted 0-1 status, a classification reserved 
for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
8 
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Further, it must be emphasized that each petition filing is a separate proceeding with a separate record. 
In making a determination of statutory eligibility, USCIS is limited to the information contained in 
that individual record of proceedings. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(16)(ii). We are not required to approve 
applications or petitions where eligibility has not been demonstrated, merely because of prior 
approvals that may have been erroneous. See Matter of Church Scientology Int'l, 19 I&N Dec. 593, 
597 (Comm'r 1988); see also Sussex Eng'g, Ltd. v. Montgomery, 825 F.2d 1084, 1090 (6th Cir. 1987). 
Finally, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa 
petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a 
service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12186425 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a director of program management for a biomedical science company , seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation . 
The Director concluded that, although the record established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial 
evidentiary requirements for this classification, he did not establish, as required, that he has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
his field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met that burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he 
or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects that the Petitioner is employed as a Director, Program Management for ~I--~ 
a multinational biosciences company, where he is responsible for leading 
._t-he-d-ev_e_lo_p_m-en_t_o_f-th_e_c_o_m_p_a....,ny' s next generation! !instrumentation. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met six criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles for organizations with a distinguished reputation; and 
• (ix), High salary or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met three of the criteria by providing evidence that he has 
judged the work of others, authored scholarly articles in professional publications, and performed in a 
leading or critical role for an organization that enjoys a distinguished reputation. The record supports 
these determinations based on evidence that the Petitioner has published his research in journals and 
conference proceedings and peer reviewed manuscripts for Journal of Orthopaedics and The 
International Journal of Health, Wellness and Society, thus satisfying the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The record also demonstrates that the Petitioner has held leading or critical 
2 
roles with his current employerc=J and includes evidence of this company's distinguished reputation 
in its industry. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's determination that he did not satisfy the criteria related 
to original contributions of major significance and high salary or other remuneration. Because the 
Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence, 
including evidence submitted in support of those two criteria, in the context of the final merits 
determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20.1 
The Petitioner holds a bachelor of engineering in biotechnology fro, I University and received 
his master of science in bioengineering from University I where he served as a graduate 
research assistant in the~------------------------~from 2006 
to 2008. The record reflects that the Petitioner has more than~ears of progressive experience in 
product development in the bioJedical field. Prior to joiningLJ in December 2015, the Petitioner 
worked as a producj enginej fo I, as a senior development engllleer for I I and as a 
project manager for 
As mentioned above, the Petitioner judged others within his field, authored scholarly articles, and 
performed in a leading role. We have also considered evidence related to an award he receiv~r his 
work atD his contributions to the field, and his salary and remuneration package withl_J The 
record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.2 The record 
reflects that, at the time of filing, the Petitioner had reviewed 18 scholarly articles submitted to Journal 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of 
the evidence the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 Id. at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being 
one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or 
international acclaim). 
3 
of Orthopaedics and The International Journal of Health, Wellness and Society. Participating as a 
peer reviewer does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and 
sustained national or international acclaim. In evaluating this evidence in the final merits 
determination, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner had reviewed 18 manuscripts for these 
two journals inl land I 12019. 3 The Director determined that because invitations to 
peer review the work of others can be routine in the Petitioner's field, this evidence alone did not 
demonstrate that he is at the top of the field or otherwise establish his sustained national or 
international acclaim. Specifically, the Director noted a lack of evidence that would set the Petitioner 
apart from others in the field, such as evidence that he had reviewed "an unusually large number of 
articles, received independent requests for a substantial number of journals, or served in an editorial 
position for a distinguished journal." On appeal the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not cite any 
authority for these factors and notes that they appear to have been applied arbitrarily. 
While the Director provided examples of judging experience that may be indicative of an individual's 
national or international acclaim, the decision does not indicate that he arbitrarily imposed novel 
requirements. Rather, the Director's observation highlights the fact that not all peer review activities 
are equally indicative of an individual's standing in the field. The Petitioner emphasizes that his 
completion of 18 reviews in a period of less thanl I is a substantial volume, but we cannot 
determine to what extent this level of activity is indicative of his national or international acclaim or 
how his experience compares to the peer review activities of individuals at the top of the field. It is 
undisputed that these two journals have frequently invited him to review articles sincel ~019; 
the record does not reflect, however, that he has a consistent history of participating as a peer reviewer 
that would indicate sustained acclaim. 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Director failed to weigh evidence related to the reputation of the 
journals and their standards for identifying reviewers. With respect to the Journal of Orthopaedics, 
the Petitioner asserts that it is "the leading journal of orthopedics and enjoys an international 
readership." The Petitioner provided limited information about this journal from its publisher's 
website indicating that it is "[a]n official publication of the Prof. PK Surendran Memorial Educational 
Foundation and Indo Korean Orthopaedic Foundation" which "aims to be a leading journal in 
orthopaedics." The evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim that Journal of Orthopaedics, 
which indicates a Cite Score ( average citation per article) of 1.16, is the "leading journal" in this field. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted a letter from the Journal of Orthopaedics' chief editor, 
who states that the journal requires its peer reviewers to be "experts with renowned international 
reputation in their own fields" who are "aware of the most updated technological and theoretical 
developments." The correspondence the Petitioner received from this journal's editor indicate that he 
was invited to review specific articles because they "fall within [his] expertise and interest" and 
requested that he suggest alternate reviewers for articles that he declines. This evidence suggests that 
the journal selects peer reviewers based on interest and subject matter expertise, a considerably lower 
threshold than sustained national or international acclaim or the "renowned international reputation" 
referenced in the editor's letter, a term which the editor did not define. 
3 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts th~ the Director erred by stating that all his journal-related peer review activities took 
place between I I 2019 and I 2019. The record reflects that his earliest review was completed on I 12019, and that he continued to review articles for the two referenced journals subsequent to the filing of the 
petition on December 5, 2019. 
4 
Regarding the Petitioner's peer review activities for The International Journal of Health, Wellness 
and Society, he submitted information from the publisher's website, which, on the subject of peer 
review, states that the publisher relies on a reciprocity system whereby any author who submits an 
article for publication will be assigned three manuscripts to review for their peers, based on subject 
matter and disciplinary expertise. The evidence does not establish this journal's rankings or reputation 
in the field, nor does it demonstrate that the publisher invites only those reviewers who have achieved 
national or international acclaim. Overall, while we acknowledge the significant volume of recent 
requests the Petitioner has received to review manuscripts for two journals, the evidence does not 
establish that the scope of these peer review activities reflects or resulted in his sustained acclaim, or 
that the nature of the peer review work he is performing is reserved for the small percentage at the 
very top of the field. 
The Petitioner further contends that the Director overlooked and did not weigh evidence demonstrating 
that he had judged the work of others while serving on a due diligence team leading up toDi_ 
acquisition ofl I in 2016. O's Vice President of Research and Developmen1LJ I I confirms that he personally invited the Petitioner to represent the program management 
function on the teaj, bred on his accomplishments and subject matter expertise. He notes that "only 
the top talent within was selected for this process." We agree withl Is statement that this 
was "a critical assignment a0," and acknowledge that this evidence supports our determination that 
the Petitioner has held leading or critical roles for his current employer. However, the record does not 
establish that his participation on the due diligence team resulted in or reflects his sustained 
international acclaim in the field, was recognized outside of0 s organization, or places him among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, publication of a petitioner's research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Here, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner established that he published a total of nine articles 
and conference papers in peer-reviewed scientific journals but emphasized that the Petitioner did not 
submit a citation history for his published work. As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to 
the work of scientists and researchers, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of one's 
articles can be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that their work has had on the field 
and whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an 
article authored by the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and 
that other researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director improperly relied solely on the Petitioner's citation 
count in evaluating whether his original contributions are of major significance in the field. However, 
the Director noted the absence of the Petitioner's citation history in evaluating evidence related to his 
published scholarly articles and whether his publication record is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). A review of the decision reflects that the Director's evaluation of the Petitioner's original 
contributions, which we will discuss below, included the Petitioner's published research, search results 
from Google Scholar demonstrating that researchers have referenced products he developed with0 
and other employers, and letters of recommendation. 
5 
In support of the a eal the Petitioner submits a screenshot from Goo le Scholar reflectin that his 
2008 article 
,__ ______________ __, had been cited by others 14 times as of April 2020. The 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that this rate of citation for one article demonstrates attention from his 
field at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of that field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). However, we acknowledge that all but one of the Petitioner's scholarly articles were 
published more than 10 years prior to the filing of the petition, and he does not rely heavily on these 
publications to support his extraordinary ability claim. As discussed further below, the Petitioner has 
not been employed in academic or research roles, but rather asserts that he has built his reputation in 
the field through product development positions in the biomedical engineering industry. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service in a leading role, the record contains numerous letters of 
recommendation discussing his product development work for Oand his prior employers. These 
letters demonstrate the Petitioner's expertise in medical technology innovation and his work for 
companies that enjoy a distinguished reputation in his field. While the Director acknowledged 
evidence demonstrating his leading or critical role withD he found that the record lacked evidence 
that such role is indicative of, or resulted in, his sustained national or international acclaim. 
The letters discussing the Petitioner's roles atO describe the company's reputation and activities, 
his areas of responsibility, and the importance of the products developed or under development, but 
as noted by the Director, do not focus on an acclaim or recognition he has received outside of the 
com an as a result of his critical roles. Vice President and General Manager of ~----------------~ fo states that the Petitioner was initially "chosen to 
lead a cross-functional team of 45 researchers and other staff with the mission to direct the timely 
development of ourl I product," "drove its successful commercialization" and reduced 
the product development lifecycle by 25%. As discussed further below, the record also demonstrates 
that he received a significant company award for his contributions to this product, which further 
supports the critical nature of his role. 
~------- explains that, as a result of his success with the I I urlduct, the 
Petitioner was promoted to Director, Program Management forOs $125 millionlprogram, 
which requires him to direct a team of 86 managers and engineers to lead the company's next-
generation,__ _________ ~instrumentation, expected to be f~launched in 2022.D 
I I states that the Petitioner "falls within the top 1 % of all employees atLJ' based on his position 
and responsibilities in the organization, noting that he is one of the youngest scientists to hold a 
"Director" title. 
Finally, as noted above, the Petitioner's appointment to a due diligence team in preparation for the 
acquisition of another biomedical company provides further evidence of his critical role within8 
The Petitioner's value to the company has been demonstrably evidenced by the letters from . 
However, the record does not establish how his contributions and achievements within the company 
have been recognized in the industry at large or indicate that he has received individual acclaim for 
them. We cannot determine that his employer's opinion that he is one of the top employees in the 
company places him among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Nor does the evidence establish that his work atOto date 
has resulted in the Petitioner becoming an acclaimed figure in his field. 
6 
With regard to his previous employment with other companies in the biomedical devices industry, the 
record shows that the Petitioner has consistently developed his skills in product development and 
commercialization and steadily progressed to increasing levels i°f resp1nsibility during his career. ~-----~I a senior director of research and development at states that he managed the 
Petitioner's work from 2013 to 2015 when he served as a senior project manager responsible for 
development, managing and launching I ts first I I product 
portfolio. He refers to the Petitioner's "critical leadership role" in overseeing the introduction of the 
company's.__ _______ __. system and notes that this product is still used by I I 
surgeons, but does not indicate how the Petitioner's project manager position withl I garnered 
him acclaim outside the company. 
The Petitioner also provided a letter froml l Vice President Engineering atl~--~ 
who previously directed the Petitioner during his tenure as a senior develo ment en ineer at 
from 2012 to 2013. He discusses the Petitioner's work with ;.,;;..;..c..c.=.;;.;;;_.;;..._;..;_;;_~....;.;_;=----------~ 
p , which is used to close varicose veins using L---~-~----r----.-----11, noting that the 
Petitioner introduced "critical design improvements" that distinguished,__ __ ~s product from those 
of its competitors, and emphasizing that the device is still widely used in the medical industry, even 
afterl Is acquisition b another com an . Finall , a letter froml l who managed 
the Petitioner's work at discusses the Petitioner's work as a product 
engineer withl lhetween 2008 and 2012. specifically discusses his contributions to 
the design and development of the~~----~ System and .----'--------.-----.--------1 System, noting that both of these products are still offered by ~ I however, addresses how the Petitioner's en~g..,...in_e_e-ri,-n_g_p_o_s....,.it....,.io~ns with and LJ were leading or critical to these organizations as a whole, nor did they provide details of how 
the Petitioner achieved national or international acclaim based on his product contributions. 
Apart from the letters from the Petitioner's current and prior managers, the record lacks other 
independent evidence, such as news articles or other relevant materials, demonstrating that the 
biomedical device field has widely recognized the Petitioner's roles or contributions to his employers 
in a manner that evidences a "career of acclaimed work." The Petitioner's talents and his successes 
to date have garnered him employment opportunities with majo~ers in the industry and increasing 
leadership responsibilities as evidenced by his current role witlL_J However, the evidence does not 
show that his roles and achievements at these companies are at a level that places him among "that 
small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner has satisfied, we have considered additional documentation 
in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. With 
respect to his receipt of awards, the record reflects thatDrecognized the Petitioner by awarding him 
the company's! I Award in 2017, the "highest distinction and honor" in recognition for 
his leadership of the development its I I product. While the evidence demonstrates that 
the award is a significant honor within the company, given to only a small number of awardees out of 
60,000 employees worldwide, it does not reflect that it is a national or internationally recognized award 
in the field as a whole, or that the Petitioner garnered recognition for this award that extended beyond 
his employer. While recognition of this nature within a large multinational corporation is certainly a 
significant achievement, the record has not shown the Petitioner's receipt of the award established or 
contributed to his sustained national or international acclaim in the field. 
7 
As it relates to his original contributions, the Petitioner has placed particular emphasis on his product 
development activities, emphasizing that surgical devices and other biomedical products he developed 
for his employers over the course of his career are in widespread use and have been of major 
significance in the medical and research fields. On appeal, he specifically references the following 
devices: im lant roducts tern and I I System) 
developed at 1.r-----------LJ; the .__----.======-' peripheral vasculuir!........l,<li.l.!.!..l.<..li...!......J.L!.l.!.!J.l.il<.J._, 
develo ed at and im lant s stems -
,__~----~~ (sold by ,__ ____________ __,(sold 
by.__ _____ _, The Petitioner emphasized that these devices are in widespread use and have 
been frequently mentioned in published studies, with "thousands of citations by many different 
researchers around the globe." 
With respect to the products developed during his tenure as a product engineer ac==] I Is 
letter states that the Petitioner "designed and developed" th~ I System, which he 
describes as "a minimally invasivd I alternative tq I screws." I lstates that "the I klesign concept and finished product were entire!: the result of [the Petitioner's] own research 
and development." The record includes al JScrew System "Surgical Technique Guide" 
published b~ lin 2010 but does not contain any additional evidence related to this product or the 
Petitioner's role in its development. As a result, we are unable to determine whether the device was 
regarded as novel or original at the time of its introduction, whether or how it impacted the field of 
biomedical technology, or whether and to what extent the Petitioner garnered acclaim or recognition 
as a result of his work on its development. 
.__ ___ _.I also briefly mentions I ~ systems as a product in which the Petitioner "was 
directly and heavily involved" while employed at~ and notes that this product, "which rovides 
robust,__ _____ __. in the I t' continues to be offered br-"-'-------.-----' 
following its acquisition ofl I The Petitioner emphasizes in his brief that the,__ ___ _,system 
is "one of the top biomedical device products sold by I ~ and "used by thousands of 
hospitals" to treatl I deformities. The record contains evidence demonstrating that I I I I still markets this product and has presented clinical data on its performance at industry 
conferences, evidence that other independent researchers have studied the product's clinical 
performance, and evidence that the product has received a 2015 ~--------------' Award. 
However, I ts letter lacks probative details describing the Petitioner's specific role in the 
development of the product. For example, it is unclear if1 I or any of its components are 
patented, and if so, whether the Petitioner is listed as an inventor. The Petitioner's detailed curriculum 
vitae mentions only that he was "[r]esponsible for 6 cadaveric studies for I I,' a I I I I device at various research labs," with duties that included "developing the protocol, conducting 
testing and writing abstracts." Even if we could determine based on the submitted evidence that he 
was significantly involved in the development ofl I system, the record lacks evidence that 
the Petitioner received any recognition in the field as a result of his contributions to the product. The 
nature of a product engineer's duties is to contribute to the development or improvement of new or 
existing products. We cannot determine that any engineer who works on successful products that 
achieve widespread use is automatically among the small percentage at the very top of the field. In 
8 
order to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, the Petitioner must also provide 
evidence that his product development work resulted in his sustained national or international acclaim. 
We have also considered evidence related to the Petitioner's work on the 
employed by . Submitted roduct details indicate that 
varicose vein therapy that roduct while 
IS a 
The evidence does not establish that the Petitioner assigned 
any patents to .__ __ _.or that he was involved in the initial development of the roduct, which pre-
dates his employment with the company§4 his manager at indicates that the 
Petitioner "was responsible for refining s breakthrough roduct," by 
introducing design improvements to its carrying out studies to optimiz .__ _ _. delivery, 
developing technical drawings for new components, establishing methodologies for improvements, 
and creating manufacturing processes for some of its components and subassemblies. 
The appellate brief emphasizes that thel I device "has been used by over two million 
patients worldwide in over 100 countries" and states that "[t]he significance of the Petitioner's impact 
with this contribution can also be measured by the fact there are already 250+ published clinical studies 
that showcase its widespread use and application." The record includes search results for 
I I from Golgle Stolar as evidence that researchers continue to study the efficacy of I land other reatments. The widespread use of the product is evident; however, the 
record lacks evidence that the product refinements to which the Petitioner contributed during his time 
a~ !garnered him recognition or acclaim in the field. 
The remainin biomedical devices referenced in the Petitioner's appellate brie;;..;;f;_. a=r;..;:.e--'t=h~ ____ ..., 
-----..-----~system currently sold by nd the 
System, described as "one of the top products sold by.__ _____ _. 
._c_o_--d1-.r-ec_t_or___,ofl lat University I I indicates that he was the Petitioner's master's thesis 
advisor and supervised his work as a graduate research assistant. He explains that the Petitioner 
"undertook critical industry studies to further the development of major medical device products for 
world-class 
1compani1s," and that two of the products included in his studies werel land I I further states that the Petitioner performed "critical work to further the successful 
development" of these products by performing scientific studies such as in vitro biomechanical 
evaluations and finite element analysis. The record supports a determination that these products 
achieved widespread use but does not sufficiently explain or document that either product is 
attributable to the Petitioner as a result of the studies he performed as a graduate student and researcher 
atl I Nor does the record establish that he garnered acclaim in the field based on these 
activities. It appears that the Petitioner's 2008 article mentioned above relates to the research studies 
discussed byl I but as noted, it has been cited only 14 times as of 2020 and has not generated 
widespread commentary in the field. 
We have also considered evidence related to the Petitioner's contributions to thel I and 
products at D With respect to I l the evidence demonstrates '-----------' that the Petitioner was hired as a senior program manager to supervise a team of 45 people and to 
4 A '--------~' publication submitted in support of the petition cites to a 2009 study of the product's clinical 
performance. The Petitioner joined! hn 2012. 
9 
"drive the timel development and successful commercialization of the product" which, according to 
a letter from has resulted in $50 million in annual revenues. The record demonstrates that 
has over 750 placements in commercial, research and university laboratories worldwide 
.__an_d_a_p_r-in_t_o_u~t from Google Scholar indicates that scientists are usin~ I as a tool in their 
research. The record also reflects that the Petitioner received recognition within the company for his 
work, including a promotion to his current Director, Program Management position, an invitation to a 
due diligence team related toDs acquisition of.__ ______ ~ and receipt of a I I 
Award in 2017. However, the record contains little evidence that the Petitioner has garnered 
recognition outside of the company as a result of his contributions to ~I-----~ 
A letter from Head of.__ _______ ~ at L.,.,.~~-~----r---....-~...J Laborato '----~ indicates that he has collaborated directly with the et1t10ner ue to s ro e 
in carrying out early testing o±O s I I products. He describe .__ ____ _. as "novel 
technology" and explains that the machine's capabilities have increased the pace of research atl I 
and provided data that is key to its published papers. also discusses! l's role in the 
beta phase o~ Is development, noting that has abilities that are "absolutely unique with 
no competition worldwide." He states that.__ _ ___. is already carrying out productive scientific 
research utilizing! l although it is not expected to be launched to the general public until 2022. 
He states that he considers both of these I I products to be original contributions of major 
significance and that he regards the Petitioner as a "gifted scientist on a global scale." 
However, all of the letters submitted in support of the petition are from individuals who directly 
worked with the Petitioner either as his manager or his collaborator; there is insufficient evidence that 
the Petitioner has achieved sustained national or international acclaim in the field as a result of his 
contributions to his employers' products. The letters do not provide sufficient information and 
explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner 
is regarded as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner also claims that his "extraordinary ability is reflected in his annual compensation 
package," which includes his base salary of$188,379, incentive bonuses and stock options. The record 
reflects that he received total compensation of $258,570 in 2018 and $288,457 in 2019. The Petitioner 
provided data from the Department of Labor's Foreign Labor Certification (FLC) Data Center 
indicating that base salaries for his occupation and geographic areal I California) are $188,510 
at Level 3 and $219,752 at the Level 4 or "folly competent" level. The Director acknowledged that 
his base salary is competitive but found insufficient evidence to establish that he earns a high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration in relation to others. While the Petitioner argues that his total 
compensation is considerably higher that the figure reported by the FLC resource, we note that the 
Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence that would allow a comparison between his total 
remuneration and that of other similarly employed workers in his geographic area. Therefore, the 
evidence does not establish that he receives total remuneration that is "significantly high" or that his 
earnings are comparable to those of individuals at the very top of the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
10 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that 
there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record 
insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12236525 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: DEC. 31, 2020 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an associate professor and general director in the geotechnical engineering field, seeks 
classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish, as required, that the Petitioner meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for 
this classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, the Petitioner has not met this burden. 
Accordingly, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an associate professor of engineering at[ I in 
Venezuela and serves as the general director ofi I He .__----,---,--r----, attended ,__ __ _, where he received his bachelor's degree in civil engineering in 1990 and a master's 
degree in managerial engineering in 1994. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to meet seven of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 1 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published materials relating to him and his work; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation. 
1 The Petitioner initially claimed he could satisfy the criterion relating to display of his work at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), but has not pursued this claim on appeal or contested the Director's decision that 
the criterion was not met. We therefore consider this issue to be waived. See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 
(BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). 
See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Atty Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 
F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 
30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the seven claimed evidentiary criteria, relating 
to judging the work of others in his field and authorship of scholarly articles. The evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner has engaged in peer review of publications in his field and that he has 
published his work in professional journals and conference proceedings, and therefore satisfied the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets five additional criteria and contends that the Director 
"failed to consider the importance of the evidence presented" in support of these criteria. After 
reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that he does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate whether he has received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 
Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for 
excellence in the field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, 
the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 
In evaluating this criterion, the Director acknowledged the Petitioner's receipt of awards and 
recognition certificates but determined that he had not established that they were nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence. The Director also emphasized that at least one award 
appeared to be awarded to the Petitioner while he was a student and noted awards designed for students 
and early career professionals "inherently exclude established professionals who have already 
achieved excellence in the field." On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the Director failed to discuss 
each award individually and did not adequately explain why the evidence did not establish the national 
recognition associated with his awards. 
The Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion, in part, based on receipt of thel I Award 
in 2004. The evidence reflects thatl l an engineering and construction company operating in 
Venezuela, sponsors a "Best Graduation Assignment" competition for students studying engineering 
at Venezuelan universities. Students submit their thesis papers through their university and the 
individuals selected byl I as having the best graduation thesis or assignments receive a 
monetary prize and an award plaque. The submitted rules of the competition indicate that in addition 
to the prize received by the winning students,! I also grants a plaque to the universities that 
submit papers selected for the prize, and to the winning students' "academic and industrial tutors." 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
3 
The evidence reflects that the Petitioner was not the author of the "Best Senior Thesis in Civil 
Engineering □' but rather received his recognition plaque as the academic tutor for thd I 
engineering student who had a winning paper. The student was the mimjry recipient of this award 
and it was his or her written work that was evaluated according td,__ __ _.' s scoring framework; the 
record does not reflect that the Petitioner's contribution as an academic tutor was directly evaluated, 
judged or awarded. 
Further, while the competition rules indicate that thel I Award is open to engineering students 
in certain disciplines at any university in Venezuela, the evidence does not demonstrate the degree of 
national or international recognition associated with the award or otherwise establish its significance. 
The fact that the competition draws its entries from a national pool of student competitors is not 
sufficient to establish that it is a nationally recognized prize for excellence. Here, the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate the national or international significance of the award in the field but focused on the 
purpose and background of the competition. The record does not establish, for example, that recipients 
of thel IA ward receive recognition beyond the award ceremony held atl ts offices and 
from their individual universities. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was the recipient of thel I award in 1992, when 
he was a graduate student at I I The record reflects that this award was created by the 
Venezuelan Society of Soils Mechanics and Foundations Engineering (SVMSIF, now known as the 
Venezuelan Geotechnical Society or SVDG) "with the purpose of fomenting in the students interest 
in the study and investigation in the Geotechni[c] Engineering field." The evidence demonstrates that 
engineering students from Venezuelan universities who have completed special graduation 
assignments or graduation theses in the field of geotechnical engineering are eligible to compete for 
the award. Winners receive a recognition plaque, publication of their work in the SVMSIF Bulletin, 
and the opportunity to present their work at the SVMSIF's bi-annual seminar. 
The Director observed that the Petitioner has been the recipient of a student award, in this case a 
student award limited to engineering students whose thesis research fell within the specific discipline 
of geotechnical engineering. Based on the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
we do not find that student awards automatically disqualify individuals from meeting this criterion. 
However, an award limited by age or student status might be a relevant factor in determining whether 
the overall field acknowledges it for excellence. Ultimately, the issue for this criterion is whether the 
prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner provided evidence that I Is newsletter Noticias published a brief announcement 
about his receipt of the~----~ award in its,__ _____ __. 1993 issue. While this evidence 
shows that he received recognition from the university he attended, he did not submit evidence 
establishing that this award is nationally or internationally recognized in the field. The Director issued 
a request for evidence (RFE) in this matter and the Petitioner was given the opportunity to submit 
additional evidence such as public announcements regarding the awarding of the prize or other 
documentation to establish that the award is recognized nationally or internationally beyond the 
awarding entity. The Petitioner provided evidence that the awarding entity is a national organization 
in the field and that it accepted entries from engineering students from any Venezuelan university. 
However, neither of these facts is sufficient to establish that thd I award is a nationally 
recognized prize for excellence in the Petitioner's engineering field. Based on the plain language of 
4 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), a petitioner cannot meet this criterion solely by establishing 
receipt of an award from a national organization, but must also establish the degree of recognition or 
significance associated with the award itself 
Finally, the Petitioner has submitted evidence of several recognition plaques awarded to him in his 
capacity as an associate professor and academic tutor atl I The evidence reflects that these 
plaques were granted to him to express the appreciation of the university and of the graduating students 
he advised. For example, the recognition plaque granted in 2005 indicates that it was given to the 
Petitioner "as a gesture of appreciation for his support throughout our university career for always 
being an impeccable person as professor, friend, worthy of our respect and admiration." The record 
does not establish that these recognitions from his students are nationally or internationally recognized 
awards or prizes for excellence in his field, or that they should be considered "awards" or "prizes." It 
appears that the Petitioner seeks to rely onl ts ranking among Venezuelan universities in order 
to establish that the plaques he received are "nationally recognized." Even ifwe could determine that 
the recognition plaques are awards rather than tokens of appreciation from students for his work as a 
professor, we note that an award limited to persons from a single institution may have little national 
significance, even if the institution itself is nationally recognized. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his membership in the Venezuelan 
Geotechnical Society (SVDG), the International Society for Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical 
Engineering (ISSMGE) and based on his admission as a faculty member oti Is Department of 
Building and Sustained Development. In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
membership in a given association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
The Petitioner provided a letter from SVDG stating that he is a member of the society's I 
committee and has been appointed as an advisor "for his career as al IMemberJ,..._......____._ ___ _ 
of this Society and for his work published in National and International Congresses that support the 
recognition of his professional career as a Geotechnical Engineer in our country." The evidence 
confirms that he held the elected Board of Directors positions ofl landl I 
2009 and 2013. 
The Petitioner also submitted an excerpt from SVDG's bylaws which states that the levels of 
membership include Founding Members, Active Members, Senior Members, and Honorary Members. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements). 
5 
The bylaws provide that Active Members are engineering professionals, registered with Venezuela's 
association of engineers, who "express their desire to belong in the society" and "comply with the 
requisites established in the Bylaws and that are accepted by the Board of Directors." The bylaws 
describe! I Members as follows: 
Thel I Members are those Active Members that, by resolution of the Board of 
Directors and in accordance with the respective ruling sanctioned by the Assembly of 
the Society, comply with all the requisites of having: antiquity and relevant trajectory 
in the membership of the Society and in the professional exercise of the geotechnical 
engineering, as well as special merits of an academic, scientific, ethical and 
professional character related to the geotechnical engineering. 
The Petitioner also submitted the minutes from the general assembly meeting at which he was elected I lof the SVDG. However, the supporting evidence does not include a description of the 
nomination and election process for Board of Directors positions or the requirements for appointed 
positions such as thel I committee position that the Petitioner held more recently. The 
Petitioner must show that in order to obtain a given level of membership, he was judged by national 
or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field. Although the 
Director requested additional evidence, the Petitioner re-submitted the same supporting documents in 
response to the RFE. 
To the extent that the submitted section of the SVDG's bylaws discuss membership requirements, they 
do not establish that admission as a I I Member requires "outstanding achievements" as a 
condition for membership. The bylaws refer to a "relevant trajectory ... in the professional exercise 
of the geotechnical engineering" and "special merits of an academic, scientific, ethical and 
professional character." However, we cannot determine based on this vague language alone that these 
characteristics equate to "outstanding achievements" in the field. Further, based on the evidence 
submitted, the record does not establish whether "outstanding achievements" are a condition for 
nomination or election to the SVDG's Board of Directors positions or appointment to the society's I I committee. Nor does the submitted evidence describe the nomination, election or 
appointment process for these positions, such that we could determine that the selections are made by 
recognized national or international experts. In fact, the Petitioner stated that he was elected "by the 
members of the engineering community during a General Meeting," which suggests that all members 
of the SVDG vote. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director failed to consider the opinions of experts in 
determining whether he satisfied this criterion. For example, he notes that Eng~-------~ 
the .__ _____ __.of PERFOHMESA C.A., stated in his letter that the Petitioner's "high 
qualifications in the Geotechnical area led him to represent, by unanimous vote, in the Assembly of 
the most renowned engineers, asl lof our Venezuelan Geotechnical Society." I I 
I Is statement however, does not indicate that "outstanding achievements" are a formal condition 
of being selected asl I of SVGA or provide~urther objective information about the 
organization's nominating and election processes forL__Jmembers. Overall, while the evidence 
indicates that it was a significant professional achievement for the Petitioner to serve as the SVDG's I l he did not provide sufficient evidence to establish that his membership with SVDG meets 
all elements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
6 
The Petitioner also claims that he meets this criterion based on his membership with ISSMGE. 
According to the ISSMGE statutes and bylaws, this international society is composed of member 
societies (including SVDG) which are generally national societies in geotechnical engineering or soil 
mechanics. The bylaws further provide that each national member society "is composed in part or in 
full of individual members who are designated Individual Members of [ISSMGE]." Based on this 
evidence, the record reflects that all individual members of SVDG, including the Petitioner, are 
designated individual members of ISSMGE; there is no evidence that such members must be judged 
by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements as a 
condition of being admitted as members ofISSMGE. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims eligibility under this criterion as "a member of the Association of 
Professors" atl I where he is currently an associate professor. The Petitioner submitted I Is regulations governing the hiring and promotion of the university's faculty. These 
regulations describe "ordinary members" of the academic staff as instructors, assistant professors, 
associate professors and professors. The regulations state that professors must: commit to the 
university's Code of Ethics, values and mission; possess academic credentials in higher education and 
personal, technical and professional skills required for the fulfillment of university functions; and 
comply with the requirements of the university's internal regulations. Those admitted as "ordinary 
members" must have two years of full-time or four years of part-time employment at the university, 
possess a specialist degree or higher level, and have obtained satisfactory results in evaluations. 
Finally, the regulations state that ordinary members must produce products such as "peer-reviewed 
publications, patents and technological developments, professional works and intellectual creation 
works" that are characterized by "making some contribution to knowledge or its innovative didactic 
nature." 
Based on the foregoing the Petitioner has not established that admission to I I's teaching staff, 
or promotion to associate professor, requires outstanding achievements as judged by recognized 
national experts in the field. The evidence reflects that professors are expected to have an advanced 
degree, teaching experience, satisfactory annual evaluations, and to "make some contribution to 
knowledge" through research and publications. The record does not demonstrate that this typical 
academic career progression amounts to a requirement that the individual be judged to have 
"outstanding achievements." 
Therefore, based on the foregoing, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner provided evidence in support of the published materials criterion, but the Director 
determined that none of the submitted articles satisfied all elements included in the regulations. The 
Petitioner submitted an excerpt from the Proceddings I of the D International Conference on Soil 
Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering held i in 2013, and the record reflects that a similar 
article was published in the ISSMGE's Bulletin (Volume 5, Issue 2). The ISSMGE conference 
7 
proceedings provide some background information regarding each national society member of the 
ISSMGE, including a brief section about SVDG. This section identifies the Petitioner as the SVDG I I at the time of the conference, and it provides information regarding the SVDG and its 
activities. The submitted page from the ISSMGE Bulletin contains essentially the same information 
and mentions the Petitioner in passing as the 1 ! of SVDG. These articles are not "about" 
the Petitioner and do not identify the author of the material as required by the regulation. 
As noted above,I ~s publication Noticias ran a brief announcement about the Petitioner's 
receipt of thel l prize in 1993, while he was a student at the university. However, the 
Petitioner did not provide evidence that this university newsletter is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium, nor is there an author attributed to the news brief. 
The Petitioner provided two articles that announce his election asl lof SYDG, One article, 
which appears to be from a newspaler, is titled I I I' and is about the Petitioner and relates to his work. But the 
excerpt submitted does not identify the title or date of the publication in which the article appeared or 
the author of the material and therefore does not satisfy the elements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). An almost identical article was published in thel I 2011 issue of 
Maguen-Escado, a publication of the Israelite Association of Venezuela. However, the article is not 
accompanied by evidence that it appeared in a professional or major trade publication or other major 
medium, nor does it identify the author of the material. 
Finally, the Petitioner provided a screenshot of what appears to be a video interview of him that can 
be found on You Tube. He did not provide a transcript of the interview or any additional information 
about it. Based on this limited evidence, he did not demonstrate that it reflects published material about 
him in major media. 
In addressing the published materials criterion on appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did 
not consider the expert opinion o~ I university professor! I in determining that 
the submitted evidence "is not within the required criteria." In his letter, I !indicates that 
he reviewed the evidence submitted under this criterion. He concludes that the Petitioner "been 
recognized by respected media outlets in the field" and thus he satisfies the published materials 
criterion. We may, in our discretion, use as advisory opinion statements from universities, 
professional organizations, or other sources submitted in evidence as expert testimony. However, 
where an opinion is not in accord with other information or is in any way questionable, we are not 
required to accept or may give less weight to that evidence. Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 I&N Dec. 791 
(Comm'r 1988). I t letter does not address or overcome the specific evidentiary 
deficiencies discussed above and is not sufficient to establish that any of the submitted articles satisfy 
all elements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
8 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
In evaluating this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner documented his scholarly 
publications, academic tutoring responsibilities, and consulting projects and submitted reference 
letters from persons in his field, among other evidence. The Director determined that while the 
evidence shows that the Petitioner is an experienced professional in his field and has made 
contributions, the record does not establish his work has had a remarkable impact or influence in the 
field or is otherwise recognized for its major significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the submitted testimonial letters from experts in his field 
establish "the importance of his contribution" in geotechnical engineering. We will consider probative 
analysis provided in opinion letters regarding the significance of the Petitioner's contributions. 5 
However, not all expert letters provide such analysis. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
Petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. Letters that lack specifics do not add value and are not considered to be probative evidence that 
may form the basis for meetings this criterion. 6 
.__ _____ __.l an associate professor a_.__ ____________ __.and al.__ _____ _. 
of SVDG, states that he is familiar with the Petitioner's teaching career and his contributions to SVDG. 
He notes that the Petitioner, during his tenure as I I for SVDG "participated in activities that 
contributed to the Country's geotechnical engineering union, in the organization of conferences, 
production of up-dating bulletins with technical documents for the distribution among members of the 
Society, study and implementation of standards and tariffs for the execution of geotechnical works." ~-----~I further states that the Petitioner's background with SVDG and his teaching career 
"make him a candidate to contribute as an advisor or consultant in the geotechnical problems of the 
country," and states that he can "attest that his contribution and participation in these cases can be of 
great importance." 
Whild I describes the Petitioner as an experienced professional in the field, he does not 
clearly describe his specific original scientific contributions or how they have already had a significant 
impact or influence in the field. For example, while he indicates that the Petitioner's work with SVDG 
required him to contribute to "implementation of standards and tariffs," he does not explain whether, 
for example, the Petitioner also developed these standards, what they were or how they were orif nal, I 
or whether that were widely adopted in the field. Another! I of the SVDG, 
.__ ___ ~ __ __, provided a letter that is very similar in content, in that he also discusses the 
Petitioner's responsibilities with the SVDG, and concludes that "he is qualified to contribute as an 
advisor in the country's geotechnical problems." 
While we do not doubt that the Petitioner is well-qualified to advise or consult on important 
geotechnical engineering issues, this criterion requires him to identify his contributions and establish 
that his past contributions has been recognized as both original and majorly significant based on their 
impact and influence. The fact that he has served in elected offices with SVDG and assisted with 
5 While we do not discuss every letter here, we have reviewed all letters submitted in evaluating this criterion. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 
organizing its activities does not, in and of itself: demonstrate that he made original contributions of 
major significance in his field. 
In his letter, .__ _____ __.of.__ ______ ___, indicates that the Petitioner has advised him 
on various projects with national and international companies and highlights his work advising 
Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS) by assisting in geological studies for the location and drilling 
of deep water wells to supply drinking water to underserved communities in South America. He 
further notes that the Petitioner "has been an integral part of the development of social responsibility 
in low-income communities at the request of private companies." The Petitioner also provided a letter 
from a program manager with HIAS, who further describes the consulting work he completed for this 
non-profit organization. While these letters indicate that the Petitioner has made valuable 
contributions to the HIAS project and several other projects, they do not specifically identify an 
original scientific contribution or indicate that his work on these projects has impacted the field, rather 
than the individual projects and the clients for which he served as an advisor or consultant. 
The Petitioner also submits a list oft I students' thesis papers for which he is credited as 
"academic tutor," copies of these papers, and a letter froml I confirming that he serves as 
"thesis tutor" and guides "research from students in the field of geotechnical engineering that 
contribute to the development of engineering in the country (Venezuela)." However, this evidence 
does not establish whether or how he has made an original contribution of major significance through 
his thesis tutoring activities atl I or that these activities have had an impact or influence in the 
field beyond the work of students in his department. The Petitioner has not provided, for example, 
evidence that he has collaborated with students on research that has been widely recognized as 
significantly influential in the field. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts that his published work establishes his original contributions in the field. 
He highlights the opinion ofl I who states in his letter that the Petitioner "has authored 6 
articles that appeared in the proceedings of the Venezuelan Geotechnical Seminar, Venezuela's most 
prominent conference in the field of Geotechnical Engineering." The Director acknowledged the 
Petitioner's publication of scholarly articles in determining that he met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi). Although published work may be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish 
that the work is of major significance. Peer-reviewed articles in journals or presentations at academic 
conferences that have, for example, provoked widespread commentary, received notice from others 
working, or have been frequently cited as authoritative in the field may be probative of the significance 
of an individual's contribution to the field. 7 
Therefore, while we acknowledge I I' statement that the Petitioner published his work at a 
prominent conference, the Petitioner has not provided a citation history or other evidence demonstrating 
how often his work has been cited or otherwise establish that his articles and conference presentations 
have provoked widespread commentary. Further, the other reference letters submitted in support of the 
petition do not discuss the Petitioner's published research findings or their significance. 
The evidence demonstrates that the Petitioner has led an active and successful professional career in 
academia, as a consulting engineer in industry, and in Venezuela's association for geotechnical 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
10 
engineering and has contributed to his university, his students, his clients and the SVDG. While the 
Petitioner has established that he is respected by his peers for his work, he has established that he has 
made original scientific contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims that he can satisfy this criterion based on his performan}e in leading and critical 
rolesforSVDG,ISSMGEJ II _,andl I The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish that these 
organizations have a distinguished reputation and did not further discuss his respective roles or 
whether they were leading or critical. 
If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the individual is ( or was) a leader. A title, with 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. If a critical 
role, the evidence must establish that the individual has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 8 
The Petitioner submitted letters from Venezuelan firms I~---~[ and.__ _______ ____. 
where he has served as "Sub-Director and Main Assessor" and "General Director," 
~r-e-sp_e_c-t1-.v-e-ly-.-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-= Human Resources Director ofl L states that the company is 
"considered among the 5 principal companies with earnings and national contracts, espec1· a)hr in the 
construction private center." I I also provided a letter as a representative of_ I 
I I She describes the firm as "a national renown company" and states that 
during the last decade it has oeen placed "among the first five (5) I Consulting Companies 
in Venezuela and also at an international level, where the concept of our company is very high." 
However, the record contains no independent and objective evidence of the relative rankings or 
national renown enjoyed by these companies and therefore does not establish the distinguished 
reputation of these organizations. 
With respect to I I the Petitioner provided some independent evidence regarding the 
university's reputation, including rankings from two sources. However, while the Petitioner may be 
deemed to perform critical teaching and mentoring duties for engineering students as an associate 
professor in the Department of Building and Sustained Development, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that this department enjoys a distinguished reputation in its own right. Nor has he shown 
how his associate professor position is leading within the university, or that it is a critical role, not 
only to his department, but of significant importance to the outcome of the university's activities as a 
whole. 
Regarding ISSMGE, the Petitioner submitted a letter from its secretary general, who provides 
background information regarding the organization's purpose, confirms SVDG's membership in the 
organization and the Petitioner's former role asl pf SVDG. Based on this limited information, 
the Petitioner has not supported his claim that he performed in a leading or critical role for ISSMGE. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
11 
The letter simply confirms the Petitioner's tenure as I I of SVDG; it does not provide detailed 
and probative information that specifically addresses what role he held within ISSGME or how it was 
leading or critical. 
Finally, the record contains ample evidence that the Petitioner held the role ofl lof SVDG' s 
.__ _____ ____.I from 2011 until 2013. As noted, a title, with appropriate matching duties, can help 
to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. However, the Petitioner has not submitted a 
description of the duties and responsibilities of this position; the letter from this organization only 
confirms his level of membership and elected and appointed position titles. In addition, the record 
includes a description of the history and purpose of the organization but does not include independent 
evidence demonstrating that SVDG is recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 