U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11863712 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a contemporary Christian music producer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, she did not show sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate that she is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a chief executive producer at ~-------~ I I, a parent company of various subsidiaries, in Venezuela since 2002. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
and judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not 
show that she garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that her achievements have 
been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that she is one of that small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that she satisfies additional criteria, and her evidence in the aggregate 
establishes her eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. Because the Petitioner has already shown 
that she satisfies the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
According to her initial cover letter, the Petitioner has been the chief executive producer ofj I 
since 2002. In addition, she has served as the production manager for artist I I 
employed as lead producer for artistl I's tours and concerts in Venezuela, and co-founded I I a Christian music band from Colombia. As indicated above, the Petitioner won an 
award, received some press coverage, and participated as a judge. The record, however, does not 
demonstrate that her personal and professional achievements rise to a level of "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Immediately prior to the filing of her petition, the Petitioner received anl JA ward for her 
participation as an executive producer on the album,I lbyl Although the 
award reflects some recognition of her work by the field, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how this 
recent, single instance shows a "career of acclaimed work in the field" and demonstrates sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Further, the Petitioner did not establish, for instance, how her receipt of this sole award compares 
to those in the upper echelon of her field, placing her among that small percentage at the very top of 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Similarly, regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered four items reflecting published material 
about her in 2006, 2008, 2017, and 2019. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such 
minimal press coverage, without any media reporting of her in a span of nine years, is consistent with 
the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did not show how her overall media coverage 
is indicative of a level of success with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the 
limited media reporting on her and her activities reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a 
very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expe1iise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated several times as a judge for~ _______ ...., a Christian 
band competition in Colombia. 5 On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that she recently served as a 
juror forl 1-6 Here, the Petitioner's judging experience involves evaluating the work 
of up-and-coming bands and performers rather than nationally or internationally renowned artists. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that these occasions contribute to a finding that she has a career 
of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. She did not show, for example, 
how her experience in amateur competitions compares to others at the very top of the field. The 
Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that she garnered wide attention from the field based on her 
judging work. Moreover, serving as a juror does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has 
extraordinary ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of her field. Cf, 
Matter o_f Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). 
Without evidence that sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent 
history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in her field, the Petitioner has not shown 
that her judging experience places her among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not 
establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage of the top of her field. 
The Petitioner indicated her membership with the Society of Authors and Composers of Venezuela 
(SACVEN). However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this membership somehow garnered 
her sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. For instance, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence showing that her membership resulted in widespread or significant 
attention. See 56 Fed. Reg at 30704. In addition, she did not establish how her membership with 
SACVEN reflects that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner provided evidence that she received a patent for her authored song,, .... I _ __. 
I t Although she indicated that other artists have sung her song, the Petitioner did not 
show that she garnered national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The 
record also contains recommendation letters commenting on her skills and abilities and confirming 
4 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
5 The record indicates that the Petitioner also founde...__ ______ _. 
6 The record contains evidence showing that she possessed voting membership with the Latin Recording Academy of Arts 
and Sciences; however, she did not demonstrate that she actually voted in the Latin Grammy process. 
4 
her work with various artists, such as I I an~ I The letters, however, do 
not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall 
field, rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). While the letters highlight the Petitioner's professional 
accomplishments, they do not show how they rise to a level of sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized the field through extensive documentation. 
See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. The Petitioner did not establish that 
she has made impactfol or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed 
work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Similar!~. the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her work atl I with other artists such as 
~ I and I and at venuessuch as I I I I Florida) and I I I I lco lombia ), resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, 
that sherew sigm'.1cant aftenhon from the greater field, or that the overall field considers her to be at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. While 
the Petitioner produced three concerts performed byl I atl I Stadium in Venezuela, 
the Petitioner did not establish that her roles or professional accomplishments caused her national or 
international acclaim or reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. 
Finally, although she documented her income from 2014, the Petitioner did not establish that she 
commanded any earnings since then, demonstrating a level of compensation commensurate with 
sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did 
not show that her wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, she did not demonstrate that she 
received notoriety or attention based on her earnings, separating herself from others in the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that she has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11971158 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a dentist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements through either receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a dentist who at the time of filing was the Director of the.__ _____ ___. 
I I Research Center atl O !University I I in China, as well as the Deputy 
Director of thel I Department in the university's school and hospital of stomatology. He states 
that he intends to continue his education in the United States, as well as "increase the communication 
between Chinese and American dental! I research" and "farther develop th~ I 
industry in the U.S." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work of others and his 
authorship of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets six additional 
evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director 
regarding the criteria relating to the Petitioner's judging and authorship activities, but find that he does 
not meet the initial evidence requirements of this classification. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As indicated in the plain language of this criterion, a petitioner must submit evidence to show that he 
has received a prize or award, that the award was granted to acknowledge his excellence in the field 
of endeavor, and that the award is nationally or internally recognized. Here, the Petitioner submitted 
evidence pertaining to the following awards: 
• Silver MedalistJ I East China~I ----~---- ...... l Debate Competition 
(2017), Representative Team of School of Stomatology, I ]umvers1ty, 
2 
• Second Prize,~I ------~II pebate Competition (2018), 
School and Hospi y,I I Omvers1ty, 
• Third Prize, 2017 Science and Technology Awards, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, University 
• Third Prize 2018 Science and Technology Progress Awards,D Stomatological 
Hospital University 
• Copper Prize, The l~--------------~I Innovates the Achievement 
Exposition (2007) 
• Excellent Paper of Conference Award, 2007 Chinese ~------------~ Seminar 
Turning to the first element of this criterion, we note that the Petitioner was not an individual recirent 
of the first two awards listed. Articles in the record which were retrieved from the I web 
portal as well as what appears to be thd !website indicate that the Petitioner was the team leader 
for the university at the debate competitions, and photographs show him accepting the certificate along 
with the four other team members. However, neither of the debate competition certificates name him 
as a recipient. We therefore find that he did not receive these awards. 
Although the evidence relating to the science and technology awards also lists the recipients by 
institution name, the names of the individual research team members are also included, and therefore 
shows that those individuals were recognized by the awarding organization. In addition, the last two 
certificates specifically name the Petitioner as the only recipient. These awards can therefore be 
considered to have been received by him. 
As for the second element of this criterion, the evidence regarding the debate competitions indicates 
that the prizes were awarded based in large part upon debate skill rather than excellence in the field of 
dentistry. For instance, an article posted on the I I portal regarding the I t' 
competition describes the topics being debated, which involve the choice between two dental 
procedures, but in detailing the results provides comments about the debating skill and tactics of the 
teams, such as noting that one set of debaters "were agile, strong, and had strong thinking ability," 
while another debate was "full of witty words," and yet another participant sang a song for comedic 
effect. 
The evidence relating to the 20171 
0 !Science and Technology Award and the 20180 
Science and Technology Award is sufficient to show that they were awarded for excellence in the 
field, as they are based upon contributions already made by the teams and individuals. However, the 
record does not include information regarding the criteria used in awarding the last two awards listed, 
or any other evidence which would support a finding that they were awarded based upon excellence 
in dentistry. We note that the term "excellent" used for the seminar award is not sufficient, by itself: 
to meet this element of the criterion. 
Finally, looking at the third element of this criterion, the record does not include evidence that the 
research grant awards, which are the only two awards meeting both of the first two elements, are 
nationally or internationally recognized. The notification for the 201 7 Science and 
Technology Awards was posted on the website of the issuing organization, the,__ _ _, Medical 
Association, and the internet search results submitted by the Petitioner do not show that recognition 
3 
of these awards went beyond the provincial level. Similarly, the evidence of information about the 
2018 I I Science and Technology Progress A wards posted on a web portal is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that these awards received national or international recognition in the field of dentistry. 
For all of the reasons discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of his membership in the following associations: 
• Chinese Stomatological Association (CSA), Member of Fifth Special Committee for I 1(2015-18), Standing Member of Sixth Special Committee for.___ ___ ____.(2018-
21 
• Stomatolo ical Association I I, Standing Member of First Specialized Committee 
,....._ ____ ----., (2006-10), Vice Chairman of Second and Third Specialized Committees 
-----r--~ (2011-19), Standing Member of First Specialized Committee for I I 
Dentistry (2015-19), Executive Director of Fourth Council 
• Chinese Medical Association of Medical Information (CMAMI), Standing Member of Seventh 
Council (2015) 
• Chinese Medical Association (CMA), .... I __ _.I Branch, Member of Third Committee of ~ty for Stomatology 
• L__J Medical Association .... I _ ____.I, Stomatology Branch, Standing Member of Fourth 
Committee 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in the CSA, he asserts on appeal that standing members of the 
committee "must have recognized important contributions" and "are all experts with outs~ndingl 
expertise," and refers to a letter submitted in response to the Director's RFE. That letter, fro 
I I the President of thee=] and President of the Schol-'-'--'....._.......,,.. ......... .......,---.; atl I states that there 
are 53 standing members of the Special Committee for and that they must have 
"recognized important contributions in the field of ora ~----~" ~--_.also writes that this 
membership must be voted unanimously by all association members, and that all standing members 
of the committee are "renowned professional experts in the field of Chinese orall ~" 
However, we note thatl I does not specify what contributions the Petitioner made that were 
considered sufficiently important to justify his selection as a standing member of the committee, nor 
does the record include a copy of the CSA's official rules regalding rembership. An article from 
what appears to from the website of the school of stomatology a notes that the members of the 
committee conducted a secret ballot to elect standing members and officers of the committee, 
including bothl land the Petitioner, but does not shed light upon the criteria employed by the 
members in casting their votes. Therefore the evidence does not sufficiently establish that the 
Petitioner's status as a standing member of one of the CSA's 34 committees meets this criterion. 
I I's letter also addresses the Petitioner's status as Vice Chairman (and after the filing of this 
petition, Chairman) of the c=J's Specialized Committee fo~ L He writes that all 
4 
members of this committee are "excellent researchers," and that the Petitioner was elected as Chairman 
due to his "excellent performance and achievements." Although he notes that the Petitioner 
successfully performed his duties as Vice Chairman of the committee,! I again does not 
identify any outstanding achievements that led r his ar,pointment as Vice Chairman and Chairman. 
In addition, the evidence includes a copy of the articles of association. Although the articles 
specify that senior officers of the association must "have great influence in the business field of the 
association," they do not include any requirements for leadership of the committees. In addition, the 
articles state that individual members must be engaged in stomatology and relevant professions. This 
evidence does not show that the0 requires outstanding achievements of its members, or applies a 
higher standard of membership including outstanding achievements for leaders of its committees. 
The last of the Petitioner's memberships that he addresses on appeal is his status as a member in the 
CMA. Although we agree that, per the articles of association, the payment of membership dues is not 
a condition for acceptance into the CMA, the articles do not otherwise show that outstanding 
achievements are required. Notably, ordinary members must hold one of several positions in the 
medical field, have graduated from a medical institution of higher education, and obtained a practicing 
license. As these requirements are the minimum for entering into a medical profession, they do not 
constitute outstanding achievements. 
Although the Petitioner does not challenge the Director's decision regarding his membership in the 
remaining associations on appeal, we have reviewed the evidence regarding those memberships and 
agree with the Director. The Petitioner has not established that his level of membership in any of these 
associations requires outstanding achievements, and we conclude that he therefore does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to meet the requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must show that material is about them, 
that it relates to their work in the field, and that it was published in one of the qualifying types of 
media. Here, the evidence submitted falls into several different categories. The first type to be 
considered is a screenshot of a video posted on I I which shows the Petitioner. The 
accompanying translation identifies the Petitioner and lists his credentials, and includes what would 
appear to be the first spoken sentence in the video in which he introduces himself However, although 
the video is described as an interview, a transcript of the video was not submitted, so the evidence 
does not indicate that the Petitioner was interviewed or, if he was interviewed, that the interview was 
about him and his work as a dentist. The evidence is therefore insufficient to show that this material 
is about the Petitioner and his work in the field of dentistry. In addition, while we acknowledge that 
the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding the popularity of1 I as a platform, he has not 
demonstrated that every video posted on the platform, regardless of the person or organization that 
posted it, should be considered to have been published in a major medium. · 
Another type of material submitted by the Petitioner is what appear to be advertisements. One example 
is a copy of an article published in a newspaper called Health News which lists his achievements and 
5 
credentials and then includes his office address, telephone number and hours. Another example, 
published on the I lweb portal, is a lengthy interview and case summary for one of the 
Petitioner's patients. At the end of this material, it is stated that the editor is "propaganda team of 
stomatological hospital," and the address and other contact information for the hospital is provided. 
However, marketing materials created for the purpose of promoting a petitioner's services are not 
generally considered to be published material about the petitioner. 1 
The record also includes two newspaper articles including the same photograph, which the Petitioner 
asserts were published inl I Daily and I I F:vening News. However, neither of these 
newspaper clippings include identification of the publication, nor do they include the date of 
publication as required. Further, the Petitioner is not identified in the first article, and both 
accompanying articles are about the visit of a French technical advisor, not the Petitioner and his work. 
One article which is about the Petitioner and his work was published in I !Railway Newspaper 
.__ __ ~_.I 1998. But the Petitioner did not provide circulation information for this newspaper, and 
did not otherwise claim or establish that it is one of the qualifying types of media. 
Upon review of all of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, including the material 
specifically mentioned above, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, 
a petitioner may show that the original contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
Here, the Petitioner submitted evidence that he is named as an inventor on nine utility patents granted 
by the Chinese National Intellectual Property Administration. In addition, he submitted certificates 
from several hospitals and medical device manufacturers regarding the production and use of devices 
based upon these patents. Specifically, certificates were initially submitted fronl I Union Hospital 
and the First Hospital of1 I stating that each of these institutions have used devices based on 
three of the Petitioner's patents. However, we note that all of these certificates use the exact same 
format, and all include nearly identical language despite coming from separate hospitals. Specifically, 
the last sentence of each certificate varies only slightly, suggesting that the language in the letters is 
not the authors' own. Cf Surinder Singh v. Board of Immigration Appeals, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 
2006) (upholding an immigration judge's adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings 
based in part on the similarity of some of the affidavits); Mei Chai Ye v. US. Dept. of Justice, 489 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14. (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
6 
F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) (concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably infer that when 
an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
This is also the case with additional certificates submitted in response to the Director's RFE. For 
example, the last sentence of the certificates froml I andl I Hospital 
regarding the production and use of a physiotherapy instrument are identical. Because these 
certificates are identical in format and share identical or nearly identical language, it is reasonable to 
infer that the Petitioner is the common source of this evidence, thus significantly reducing their 
evidentiary value. 
In addition, even if we were to consider the content of these certificates as entirely valid, they do not 
establish that the Petitioner has made a major contribution to the field of den~ Although they 
indicate that adoption of these devices has takf n plaf e in hosprals belond L___J most of these 
hospitals are in the same province ofl I as including Medical University, First 
Hospital of I I and I I Municipal Hospital. In addition, the certificates from the 
manufacturers indicate that they have been produced in what appear to be limited numbers, including 
200 units of the physiotherapy instrument and 700 units of al I. Although the 
producers assert that that thd I has been "applied in hundreds of domestic hospitals 
and clinics" and that an ice and heat compress mask has "sold quite well in hospitals and clinics 
nationwide," the evidence is insufficient to show that the apparently low number of units produced 
supports these assertions. Further, the record does not include evidence to support that this level of 
adoption by some hospitals in China demonstrates wide implementation throughout the field or a 
remarkable impact. 
We also note that the certificates do not indicate that the introduction and use of these devices has 
resulted in a significant contribution to dental care or the field of dentistry. Several of the certificates 
state that the use of these devices has "benefitted a lot of patients" and "can save operation time and 
improve efficiency," and they generally indicate satisfaction with the devices. However, while some 
of the certificates describe the construction and operation of the devices in detail, none specifically 
indicate the scope of their impact upon patient care. 
Reference letters submitted by the Petitioner also discuss his patents and their contributions to the 
field. For instance] I of the I ~ University School of Dentistry (Japan) 
describes the construction and operation of a 1" ( described as al I on the 
patent certificate) which the Petitioner helped to invent, and states that "th~ I efficiency 
is improved and the injuries to the patient is reduced." As with the statements provided in the 
certificates] Is description does not provide sufficient detail to demonstrate that this 
device has been a contribution of major significance to the field. 
The Petitioner also focuses in his appeal brief on the contribution he made to a cooperative research 
project with Australian researchers on the effects of hyperbaric oxygen onO tissue. He refers to 
two reference letters in support of the major impact of this research. I I of the I !University Institute of Stomatology states that this research "has released many valuable 
academic papers," but mentions only one paper co-authored by the Petitioner. I l also 
mentions this project and states that its contribution "can be showed by the scientific fee of more than 
CYN 500,000." However, he does not explain the correlation between the amount of funding granted 
7 
for this research and the significance its outcome has had on the field of dentistry, and neither letter 
provides detail concerning the project's results and subsequent impact. 
Although the Petitioner has shown that he has made original contributions to his field through his 
inventions and research, the evidence submitted and analyzed above does not establish that he those 
contributions have been of major significance. Therefore, he does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In general, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall hierarchy of an organization 
and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact 
on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's performance in this role should 
establish whether the role was critical for the organization or establishment as a whole. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner has served as the Director of the ~------;=====1 I I Research Centerl I ofO since 2013, as well as Deputy Director ofthd~--~ 
Department in the School and Hospital of Stomatology. On appeal, the Petitioner hiThlights the letter 
froml l who is the President o-te=J's School of Stomatology.l j states that in the 
two roles held by the Petitioner, he "lead[ s] the clinical work and research of two departments." He 
also states that the Petitioner is "a well-known ex ert in in China" and among "China's 
first batch of doctors and researchers of ." In addition,! I writes that the 
Petitioner was appointed as the Director of the Teaching and Research Office, in 
which role he leads "the various levels of~-----~ and students' cultivation work" in the 
School of Stomatology. 
Although I I's letter provides little detail regarding the Petitioner's duties, it sufficiently 
indicates that he serves in a leading role for the! I as well as thel !Department. However, 
as noted by the Director in his decision, this reference letter and others in the record do not indicate 
where his position fits into the overall hierarchy ate=] or even within the School of Stomatology 
and Affiliated Stomatological Hospital. Evidence which appears to be from the I I website 
indicates that the hospital has 14 clinical departments and 7 administrative departments, and the 
evidence concerning the Petitioner's leadership of one or two of those departments is not sufficient 
to establish that it is leading or critical for the entire hospital. Further, the record does not include 
evidence which establishes thatl I or thel !Department by themselves have distinguished 
reputations. 
The website evidence also verifies statements in several of the reference letters that the Petitioner's 
employing hospital is the only specialized stomatological hospital i~ I province. Another page 
from the website states that the hospital's "research conditions have been improved," and that it "ranks 
high in Periodontology and I L" but it does not include a reference or further 
information about the ranking to support this latter statement. This evidence does not therefore 
establish that I l's School of Stomatology and Affiliated Stomatological Hospital have a 
distinguished reputation amongst similar hospitals in China or in the dentistry field overall. 
Per the above, we conclude that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
8 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of this criterion, the Petitioner submitted tax documents for the years 2016 through 2018 
that show that he earned "income from salary and wages" of RMB 449,706 and RMB 616,628 in the 
first two years, respectively, and that his monthly "normal salary and wages" in 2018 totaled RMB 
542,606. In addition, he earned bonuses of RMB 11,000 in 2016 and RMB 108,000 in 2017 and 2018. 
For purposes of comparison to the salary of others in his field, the Petitioner submitted a salary survey 
from the website www.kanzhun.com. This material indicates that the position surveyed is dentist, that 
it the figures are based upon "124 items of salary," and that the average salary of RMB 5949 is 
expressed in pre-tax yuan per month. However, average salary information for those performing work 
in a related but distinct occupation with different responsibilities is not a proper basis for 
comparison. Rather, the petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in 
his/her occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA 
Tour golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Here, although he 
works in the field of dentistry, the Petitioner's position as a department head withc=Js dentistry 
school and hospital is not comparable to that of a dentist. The partial list of positions, locations and 
salaries included with the submitted salary survey evidence verifies that the salaries included in the 
survey are dentists, and there is no indication that these positions share the same duties or level of 
responsibility as the Petitioner's position. 
In addition, based upon the partial list referenced above, these positions are located throughout China, 
and therefore do ndt provi1e an accurate basis for comparison to the Petitioner's salary, which is based 
upon conditions i The evidence includes a note to this effect, stating that "[S]alary level is 
affected by many factors, such as region, working years, and etc. For reference only." 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted evidence to establish that his salary is high in relation to 
comparable positions within his geographical area, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level 
do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
9 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he 
is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24527997 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an athlete, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he had a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
The Petitioner is pursuing a career in mixed martial arts. Although the Petitioner signed a contract 
with regional organizations in the New Jersey and New York area, the record does not reflect that he 
competes at a professional level. He states his goal is to participate in the 2028 Summer Olympics . 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner did not clearly indicate under which 
regulatory criteria he was applying. The Director decided which criteria it appeared the Petitioner was 
applying under, and issued a request for evidence (RFE) relating to those categories of evidence, then 
ultimately determined he did not satisfy the following criteria in the final decision: prizes or awards; 
membership; and leading or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains they meet the regulation's requirements relating to each of the 
criteria the Director denied, but he also alludes to his eligibility under judging, original contributions , 
and commercial success in the performing arts. Within the Director's RFE, they discussed the 
Petitioner's claims and in response , he did not address any of the new criteria he claims on appeal. 
Within the appellate brief is the first instance that the Petitioner articulated his eligibility under these 
criteria. As the Director could not have committed an error in law or an error in fact as it relates to 
these additional criteria, we will not consider those claims for the first time on appeal. See Matter of 
Izaguirre, 27 I&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017) (citing Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 
1988)). Nevertheless, the Petitioner may pursue these claims within a new petition filing. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director's ultimate determination. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which class[fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
The Petitioner's sole claimed membership is on the I !national team. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
claims the Director ignored information within his evidence from I which is the official 
website of International! We note the Director discussed this entity within the denial 
decision and the Petitioner does not explain what aspect of this material the Director failed to consider. 
Relating to the Petitioner's overall claims under this criterion, he states thel lteam is 
ranked high among its world competitors, he notes some of the evidence he provided about the team 
originated from leading websites in the country of I I and in both his RFE response and on 
appeal he indicates the team has no written requirements nor code for membership. 
Although many athletes who are members of a national team may qualify under this criterion, they 
must submit sufficient evidence of the selection process to establish that outstanding achievements are 
required (e.g., meeting a certain cutoff time or score, or advancing through qualification rounds). 
However, the record provides no insight on the selection process for this national team. While this 
type of membership may, depending on the evidence presented in an individual case, meet the 
requirements of this criterion, it is a petitioner's burden to demonstrate that he meets every element of 
a given regulatory provision. We will not assume that every "national team" is sufficiently exclusive and 
requires outstanding achievements of its members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in their fields or disciplines. Because this Petitioner has not done so here, we conclude that he 
has not met this regulatory requirement. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets three criteria, because his arguments fail on 
any single criterion, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of criteria and it is 
unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed elements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our 
evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it 
unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the 
2 
appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23376211 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 01, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a I I designer who has recently worked and exhibited her collections in 
Florida. She has submitted evidence of her work both in Venezuela and in the United States. 
The Petitioner intends to continue her collaboration with businesses in the United States and plans to 
open a store in the I I area. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the five criteria she claimed to have 
satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work in the field of design and display of her work at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases.1 The Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that she meets these additional criteria. 
As more fully discussed below, we agree with the Director's decision. The Petitioner has not met her 
burden of proof to establish eligibility under each criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field of endeavor.2 
8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)Q..}..uL_Jhe Petitioner submitted a copy and translation of a certificate for her Mara 
de Oro Award as a Fashion Designer with International Projection," which was issued by the 
Mara de Oro Foundation of Venezuela onl I 2018. The record includes letters from the 
president of the Mara de Oro Foundation of Venezuela discussing the qualifications necessary to 
receive an award and the history of the Mara de Oro Foundation of Venezuela. It also contains several 
online articles regarding the Mara de Oro awards. In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director 
requested documentation to demonstrate that the Petitioner's award was recognized beyond the 
awarding entity. The Petitioner's response highlighted three previously offered online submissions: 
two from Panorama and one from El Universal. 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vii). 
2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, 
but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards 
or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See 
generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 
In his decision, the Director recognized that the Petitioner was the recipient of the Mara de Oro Award; 
however, he concluded that the award is not a nationally or internationally recognized award in her 
field of endeavor. The Director determined that awards of this nature that are recognized nationally 
or internationally "usually receive a certain level of media coverage," and that the record did not 
sufficiently document the Petitioner's receipt of the award in 2018 in either international or national 
media. On appeal, the Petitioner refers to several articles previously submitted and asserts that the 
Director did not address the evidence provided or explain why it was insufficient to show that the 
award is recognized nationally or internationally. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that the Mara de Oro 
award is a nationally or internationally recognized award in her field of endeavor. The Petitioner did 
not submit evidence showing that Mara de Oro award winners receive a level of media coverage that 
is commensurate with a nationally or internationally recognized award in the arts. The limited 
evidence of the award's media coverage is insufficient to establish the level of national or international 
recognition associated with the award. Rather, several of the submitted articles are brief 
announcements of prior awards ceremonies and do not mention the Petitioner or the 2018 awards 
ceremony. One submission, _____________ in Panorama, mentions the 
Petitioner's receipt of the award; it includes a picture of the Petitioner with her award, with a two­
sentence article stating that she was recognized with the "Mara de Oro prize." However, it does not 
establish the level of national or international recognition associated with the award. Further, the 
online articles and letters from the organization's president do not provide clear or consistent 
information regarding the award categories, the number of annual awards given, the criteria used to 
grant awards, or whether all of the awards are deemed national or international in scope. 
Therefore, while the Petitioner documented her receipt of the Mara de Oro award as al I Fashion 
Designer with International Projection," the supporting evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that 
this is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award in her field of endeavor. Thus, the 
Petitioner has not met her burden to establish that she meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted online articles from various websites and publications, together with 
viewership or circulation information. In his RFE, the Director stated that the majority of the evidence 
"reflected blurbs about the petitioner's exhibition at the I Hotel or her receipt of the 
Mara de Oro prize, but no articles which told a story about her work." In response to the RFE, the 
Petitioner asserted that the articles submitted with the petition meet the plain language of the regulation 
because they "concern [the Petitioner] in connection to her work in the field." 
In his decision, the Director indicated that he reviewed all of the articles submitted and found that 
none of the articles discussing the Petitioner and her work met plain language requirements of the 
4 
regulation. Specifically, he concluded that the published material is not "about" the Petitioner related 
to her specific work in the field for which classification is sought, and that the website visitation and 
ranking data from SimilarWeb.com did not establish that the cited sources qualify as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that two of the articles submitted meet the lain language of the 
regulation: " written b and ublished on 
I I 2017, in Panorama; and written by and 
published onl I 2018, in Panorama. Specifically, she asserts that these articles were published 
in major media3 and are about her relating to her work in the field of the arts. 
As to the discussion of whether Panorama qualifies as "major media," the Director found that the 
website visitation and ranking data for panorama.com.ve from SimilarWeb.com did not establish that 
it qualifies as major media. Upon review, we agree with the Director's assessment of the evidence. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation (online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (Appendix). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that panorama.com.ve is ranked #87 of "all other" news and media sources in 
Venezuela and that the ranking data from SimilarWeb.com serves as comparative and reliable 
evidence supporting its designation as "major media." 
The website statistics from SimilarWeb.com indicate that panorama.com.ve ranks 20,733 globally and 
87 in Venezuela, and that approximately 80% of the website's traffic comes from Venezuela; it also 
shows the average amount of time viewers spend on the website. However, the record does not 
contextualize those statistics, indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that information may 
establish that the website is the type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The 
submitted materials do not meet the Petitioner's burden to show that panorama.com.ve qualifies as 
major media. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76.4 
As to the discussion of whether the published material is about the Petitioner related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought, we note that none of the submitted articles include 
a substantial discussion of the Petitioner's work in the field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 (Appendix). While the two articles referenced on appeal mention the Petitioner, neither 
article includes a substantial discussion about her relating to her work as a fashion designer. Instead, I is a brief, two-paragraph article with pictures relating to one of 
her collections. The article includes quotes from the Petitioner, but it does not include a 
substantial or material discussion about her relating to her work. Similarly, I is a two-sentence article, including a quote from the Petitioner, with a picture relating to her 
acceptance of the Mara de Oro award. The article does not include a substantial or material discussion 
about her relating to her work as a fashion designer. 
In sum, the Petitioner has not met her burden of proof to demonstrate her eligibility under 8 C.F .R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
3 The Petitioner does not claim that they were published in professional or trade publications. 
4 The article does not indicate that it was posted on panorama.com.ve. 
5 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she has performed in a leading or critical role 
for an organization or establishment that has a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner asserts that she is the leading designer and owner ofl I that 
she performed in a leading and critical role for this organization, and that the organization has a 
distinguished reputation. With the petition, she submitted a letter from the vice president of her I I company; articles discussing local exhibitions of her designs in Venezuela; letters from 
companies she has collaborated with; a printout from her Instagram account; financial evidence 
relating to her company; and a letter from a photographer who has photographed her designs. In the 
RFE, the Director requested additional evidence to demonstrate tha is is an 
organization with a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner's RFE response highlighted previously 
submitted articles related to her work in Panorama and La Verdad to demonstrate that she has 
performed a leading role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
In his decision, the Director determined that that Petitioner did not establish that herl lbrand 
has a distinguished reputation. The Director found that the articles in Panorama and La Verdad did 
not speak to the distinguished reputation of the Petitioner's brand, __________ the 
Director stated, "in fact, little is known about this company in the record." On appeal, the Petitioner 
again asserts that the article in Panorama discussing her receipt of the Mara de Oro award, and the 
article in La Verdad stating that her business is a "big success," demonstrate that she has performed a 
leading or critical role for an establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
Upon review, we agree with the Director that that Petitioner has not established that her ___ 
brand has a distinguished reputation. The record does not include evidence sufficient to allow for an 
evaluation of the Petitioner's brand or company as it compares to others in the industry. Aside from 
the mention of her work in articles, the only business documents of record are a 201 7 cash flow 
statement and a 201 7 report of financial statements from a public accountant described in the report 
as "unaudited" and "unreviewed;" these documents provide a limited view of the reputation of the 
Petitioner's business. While the record includes letters of endorsement from the Petitioner's 
colleagues that speak to her creativity and work ethic, the letters do not provide sufficient information 
to establish thatl I holds a distinct or eminent reputation as a brand in the 
fashion industry. The Petitioner has not met her burden to establish that she has performed in a leading 
or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
G 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23249897 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 01, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a research scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim, and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act. In addition, the individual must seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability and their entry must be of 
substantial prospective benefit to the United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii) and (iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a research scientist who has developed and enhanced computational and 
mathematical tools and models for simulating gas and fluid flow dynamics, with applications in 
aerospace and mechanical engineering and software simulation technology. He received his Ph.D. in 
aerospace engineering and mechanics from the University ofl lwhere he also worked as a 
graduate and post-doctoral research associate. At the time of filing, he was employed by the Scientific 
Computation Research Center atl University. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of 
specialization; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in the field in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the three claimed criteria, relating to judging 
the work of others and authorship of scholarly articles. However, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner did not establish his original contributions of major significance, and therefore did not meet 
the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification. As such, the Director did not proceed to a 
final merits determination. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field by peer reviewing 
manuscripts for professional journals and conferences and that he has authored scholarly articles in 
professional publications including Aerosol Science and Technology, Computers & Fluids, and 
Physics of Fluids. Therefore, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied 
the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he has also made original contributions of major significance 
and that the Director did not properly weigh the evidence submitted in support of the criterion at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not appear to 
2 
give evidentiary weight to detailed letters from experts in his field which discuss his contributions and 
their impact on the field. In addition, the record contains supporting evidence indicating how other 
scientists in the field, including researchers at NASA, have relied on the Petitioner's work and used 
his computational models as a benchmark to further their own research. 
For example, a letter from the former chief of the Applied Aerosciences and Computational Fluid 
Dynamics Branch at NASA's Johnson Space Center addresses the significance the Petitioner's 
published research. Specifically, he notes that the Beneficiary's work at the University ofl I 
was incorporated into the Direct Simulation Monte Carlo (DSMC) tools NASA uses for rarified gas 
assessments for spacecraft flight and for the analysis of rocket exhaust impingement of vehicles 
docking to the International Space Station. He states: 
One of [the Petitioner's] specific contributions included the development of an 
advanced and robust, generic computational geometry engine fundamental for the 
embedded multi-topological domain discretization used by our NASA simulation tools, 
which has been directly implemented in our codes. He also has custom developed 
specialized computer modules that have been implemented in the NASA tools, ... 
Each of these advancements have dramatically advanced the state-of-the-art 
capabilities of the NASA tools which are relied upon by not only NASA, but also by 
other U.S. government agencies, Department of Defense, and commercial industry for 
similar applications. 
In addition to the submitted letters from experts in his field, the Petitioner provided a 2019 article 
authored by scientists from NASA Ames Research Center and Sandia National Laboratories and 
published in Physics of Fluids, which discusses the history of the DSMC method and significant 
advancements in the field. The authors single out the Petitioner's work among "several notable 
parallel DSMC codes ... developed over the last 30 years to leverage the increasing computation 
power of parallel machines," and mention the incorporation of the Petitioner's original work into 
NASA's own DSMC tools. 
Based on this evidence and other evidence not discussed here, the Petitioner has provided sufficient 
detail to establish the nature of his original contributions to the advancement of DSMC methods and 
applications and the significant impact of this work on his field. We conclude that the Petitioner met 
his burden to establish that he meets the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The 
Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition. Accordingly, the 
Director's decision is withdrawn. 
However, meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) does not, by itself, 
establish eligibility for the requested classification. As the Petitioner has satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements, we will remand the matter to the Director for entry of a new decision that includes a final 
merits determination consistent with Kazarian. 
On remand, the Director must analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments to determine if he 
demonstrated his extraordinary ability in his field of endeavor. The new decision should include an 
analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether the Petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, that he has achieved sustained national or international acclaim, that 
3 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we are withdrawing the 
Director's decision and remanding the matter so that the Director may conduct a final merits 
determination. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22646153 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 1, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
The Petitioner states he is one of the few leading engineering, data science, internal medicine, and 
therapy intervention experts in biomedical engineering. He also states that he is well-known in his 
field through his development of the I I artificial pancreas technology which resulted in four 
patents, and four journal articles. He investigates issues related to the development of continuous 
glucose monitors, artificial pancreas pumps, and decision support algorithms. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In his decision, the Director determined that the Petitioner met five of 
those criteria: published material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Director determined the Petitioner did not demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim, that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the Director failed to provide a proper final merits determination 
because he did not consider the totality of the evidence in order to determine whether the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who have risen to the top of their field of endeavor and has sustained 
national or international acclaim and that the Petitioner's achievements have been recognized in his 
field of expertise. For example, the Petitioner notes that the Director included the citation statistics of 
other researchers but did not acknowledge the evidence from Microsoft Academic indicating the 
Petitioner's citation statistics placed him among the top one percent of the more than 34 million authors 
publishing research in Engineering, Computer Science, Medicine, and Dynamic Models. The 
Petitioner also states that the Director did not acknowledge the evidence from Clarivate Analytics 
regarding the Petitioner's published papers and his ranking. The Petitioner states that the Director did 
not discuss specific deficiencies regarding documents submitted to demonstrate the Petitioner is one 
of the small percentage who have risen to the top of his field of endeavor and has sustained national 
or international acclaim and his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise, and that 
the Director improperly dismissed evidence without proper explanation. 
In addition, the Petitioner states the Director erred by imposing a citation threshold and for not 
providing an explanation as to why he used certain researchers as a comparison to the Petitioner. 
2 
In a final merits determination, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) analyzes 
a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his successes are 
sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
Upon review, we conclude that the Director did not adequately address the evidence of record when 
considering the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the 
record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. An officer must fully explain the reasons 
for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision and to allow 
us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see also Matter of 
M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for denying 
a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
Therefore, we will remand the matter for the entry of a new decision. 
Based upon the deficiencies discussed above, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand 
the matter for further review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should request any 
additional evidence deemed warranted to address the final merits determination pursuant to section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, and 
any other issues. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also Id. (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12637549 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a Brazilian jiu-jitsu competitor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, and we subsequently dismissed the 
appeal. 1 The matter is now before us on a motion to reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the motion. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
Further, a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to 
reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider 
are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and 
demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 See In Re: 6619081 (May 1, 2020). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received 
a major, internationally recognized award and that she satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), of 
which she must meet at least three. In dismissing her appeal, we also determined that the Petitioner 
did not fulfill the one-time achievement and did not establish eligibility for any additional criteria. 
A. Judicial Proceeding Statement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii) requires the motion to be "[a]ccompanied by a statement 
about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceedings and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." The Petitioner, 
however, did not include the required statement. Therefore, the Petitioner's motion does not meet the 
applicable requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceeding at the 
time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming 
that he~ !World Championships qualify as one-time 
achievements. In our prior decision, we specifically addressed her arguments and evidence and 
explained why her claims and documentation did not establish eligibility of I I World 
Championships as major, internationally recognized awards. On motion, the Petitioner did not explain 
or demonstrate how we erred or incorrectly applied law or policy. 
In addition, the Petitioner argues that she meets the "three-out-ten-rule" because she satisfied the 
membership criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) and generally references claims and material that 
we previously evaluated. Again, the Petitioner does not specifically point to how we improperly 
applied law or policy rather than generally alleging error. Our decision detailed why the Petitioner 
did not sufficient!] document how her memberships with thel I Hall of Fame and the I I I world Clampiorhip Cluh I . ,I fulfilled the membership criteriou. 
Specifically, as it relates to the Petitioner made assertions and assumptions that were not 
supported in her documentation, and she did not establish I ts membership requirements. 
Regarding .__ ____ ___. we explained how automatic membership, without being judged by 
recognized national or international experts, does not meet the regulatory requirements for the 
membership criterion. 
The Petitioner does not address any of these issues on motion, nor did she demonstrate how we 
incorrectly or improperly adjudicated her appeal. Disagreeing with our conclusions without showing 
that we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of the evidence is 
not a ground to reconsider our decision. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) 
(finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit in essence, the 
same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision.) 
2 
As she did not demonstrate that we incorrectly dismissed her appeal, the Petitioner did not establish 
that she meets the requirements of a motion to reconsider. Therefore, we will deny her motion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly dismissed her appeal based on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10468354 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a vice president and chief content officer of a media company, seeks classification as 
an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 
8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Before 2016, the Petitioner was co-founder and editor-in-chief ofL_ _______ ---r--1----___J 
Since 2016, the Petitioner has served as a vice president and chief content officer of.__ _ _. an online 
provider of business news and information. She intends to work as I I U.S. representative in the 
United States, where her role would be to "develop the media business, build a professional content team 
and manage the daily operation ofC:=l's subsidiary in the U.S." 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to participation 
as a judge of the work of others and a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or 
establishments. 
Upon review, we have determined that the Petitioner satisfies a third criterion, relating to high salary 
or other significantly high remuneration. In the denial notice, the Director stated that pay statements 
show salary payments that are substantially lower than the salary claimed elsewhere in the record. On 
appeal, the Petitioner states that the Director misread a municipal tax document, and mistook tax paid by 
the Petitioner for salary paid to her. The record supports this assertion. The Petitioner has established 
that she has commanded a high salary in relation to others in her field. 
2 
Rather than further discuss the specific requirements of the evidentiary criteria, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim and 
that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 In this matter, we conclude that the Petitioner has not shown her 
eligibility. 
The Petitioner asserts that her work witlC7in the United States "would satisfy the national interest 
standard," and that she has submitted "at least three types of initial evidence as an alien of exceptional 
ability under section 203(b)(2) of the Act." These and other assertions relate to a different immigrant 
classification. In this proceeding, the Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act, not as an alien of exceptional ability, with a national interest 
waiver of the job offer requirement, under section 203(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Act. 
The Petitioner asserts that "chief content officer" is a "relatively new title," and therefore relatively 
little evidence exists that would permit a direct comparison between her and others in similar positions. 
Nevertheless, the statutory and regulatory requirements are inherently comparative, demanding 
evidence to show that the Petitioner is at the top of her field relative to others in that field. In this 
case, the Petitioner's evidence satisfies the facial requirements of three regulatory criteria, but upon 
examination, that evidence does not show that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or 
international acclaim and stands at the very top of her field. 
The Petitioner holds a high-ranking position at a media company that has attracted attention in the 
field. For this reason, the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied the evidentiary criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), relating to performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments with a distinguished reputation. Such a role, however, is not intrinsically tantamount 
to sustained national or international acclaim. The reputation of a given organization does not 
automatically or presumptively demonstrate acclaim for its high-ranking officers. 
The Petitioner emphasizes published materials in the record which name her as a top official o±i._ _ ___. 
The record, however, does not establish the significance of this coverage. Many of the submitted articles 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
lack an author credit, and appear to be promotional in nature rather than reflecting acclaim from outside 
the organization. 
The Petitioner has established that she is successful in her field, but the evidence submitted does not 
meet the much higher threshold of establishing sustained national or international acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that her career is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13020667 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineering specialist , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had received a major, international recognized award or satisfied at least 
three of ten alternative evidentiary criteria, as required. After a series of appeals and motions ( detailed 
below), the matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the combined motion. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition or the 
initial dismissal of the appeal. Instead, the filing is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent 
decision. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot 
use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the proceeding. 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner must either establish a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Procedural History 
In order to provide context, we discuss, here, the procedural history of this matter. 
2 
July 2017 The Petitioner filed the petition. 
August 2018 The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not established 
eligibility for the classification sought. 
September 2018 The Petitioner appealed the Director's decision to us at the Administrative Appeals 
Office (AAO), and stated that he would submit a brief and additional evidence within 
30 days. The record does not show, and the Petitioner does not claim, that he 
submitted those materials within that period. 
December 2018 We summarily dismissed the appeal, citing the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v), 
which requires summary dismissal of an appeal that does not identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the decision being appealed. 
January 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. On motion, the 
Petitioner did not contest the summary dismissal of the appeal. Rather, the Petitioner 
addressed the grounds for denial of the underlying petition. 
June 2019 We denied the Petitioner's motion as untimely, because we received it after the 
expiration of the filing period defined at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(v)(B)(I). 
July 2019 The Petitioner appealed the denial of the motion, seeking to explain the delay in filing. 
October 2019 We rejected the appeal, because the regulations make no provision for a petitioner to 
appeal a decision by the Administrative Appeals Office. 
November 2019 The Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen and reconsider, seeking both to 
explain the untimely filing of the January 2019 motion and to submit new evidence in 
support of the underlying petition. 
July 2020 We granted the Petitioner's motion to reopen in part and dismissed it in part, and 
dismissed the motion to reconsider. We excused the delay in filing the January 2019 
motion, under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i), but we also determined that 
the Petitioner had not overcome the summary dismissal of his September 2018 appeal. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
The Petitioner's latest motion includes several documents, but all of them are copies of materials that 
he had submitted previously. None of them are new to the record, and therefore they do not introduce 
new facts. Furthermore, most of the submitted documents relate to events in 2018 and 2019, after the 
petition's July 2017 filing date. As such, they cannot establish eligibility at the time of filing, as 
3 
required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(2). See also Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 
49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971) (new facts cannot retroactively establish eligibility).1 
We will dismiss the motion to reopen, because the Petitioner has not shown cause for reopening the 
proceeding. 
C. Motion to Reconsider 
For the motion to qualify as a motion to reconsider, the Petitioner must show that our most recent prior 
decision (issued July 2020, relating to the Petitioner's November 2019 motion) contained errors of 
fact, law, or policy that affected the outcome of that decision. 2 In that decision, we made the following 
determinations: 
• We granted the motion to reopen in part, because the Petitioner had adequately explained the 
delay in filing the January 2019 motion; 
• The only issue properly under consideration in the January 2019 motion was the summary 
dismissal, not the August 2018 denial or the merits of the underlying petition; 
• The Petitioner did not show that we erred in summarily dismissing the original appeal; and 
• The regulations make no provision to excuse the late filing of a motion to reconsider. 
In the present motion, proper consideration is limited to these issues. 
The Petitioner states, on motion: 
AAO erred by summarily dismissing the appeal and failed to consider petitioner's brief 
with newly submitted evidence. The AAO should not have summarily dismissed his 
appeal and overlooked the additional evidence previously submitted attached to 
beneficiary's motion. 
Petitioner identified an error in the director's decision summarily dismissing 
petitioner's appeal without considering the evidence attached to the motion and new 
statement of facts and new evidence in support of his motion. 
Petitioner asserts that AAO erred in summarily dismissing the appeal since the 
petitioner provided numerous explanations in the form of motion and supplemental 
brief: affidavit and newly submitted evidences and basis for his appeal and additional 
evidence when the appeal was filed. 
1 To avoid conveying the false impression that these materials would have otherwise established eligibility, we briefly note 
that the submitted materials relate to the Petitioner's employment at an elder care facility and a student project involving 
the construction of an impact attenuator for a race car. On its face, this evidence does not establish or suggest that the 
Petitioner is eligible for classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
2 See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i). 
4 
The above statement alleges error in the December 2018 summary dismissal, but only by ignoring the 
chronology and conflating the appeal (filed in September 2018) with a subsequent motion (filed in 
January 2019), repeatedly referring to the motion as though it were an integral part of the appeal. 
When we reviewed the appeal in December 2018, the Petitioner had not yet filed the motion, and had 
not yet submitted any brief or evidence in support of that motion. The motion was the Petitioner's 
response to the December 2018 summary dismissal. The appeal that was before us in December 2018 
did not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact. 
In a new brief: the Petitioner cites various examples of case law concerning the limited scope of 
motions to reconsider. For example, he cites Matter o_f Medrano, 20 I&N Dec. 216,219 (BIA 1990, 
1991 ), which he paraphrases as follows: "A motion to reconsider should not be used to raise a legal 
argument that could have been raised earlier in the proceedings." This case law undermines, rather 
than supports, his argument on motion. The time to allege specific errors in the Director's denial 
decision was in the appeal filed in September 2018. At that time, the Petitioner filed only a skeletal 
appeal. He stated that more details would follow within 30 days, but he did not supplement the appeal 
during that time. The filing of the appeal afforded the Petitioner a time-limited opportunity to raise 
specific objections to the denial. It did not create or preserve any right for the Petitioner to dispute the 
denial in a motion that would be filed months later. 
The Petitioner filed a timely appeal in September 2018, but he did not, at that time, identify any 
specific grounds for the appeal. Instead, he made the general statement that the denial contained 
unspecified errors which the Petitioner would address in a brief, to follow within 30 days. The record 
does not contain any timely supplemental brief from the Petitioner, and the Petitioner does not claim 
to have submitted one. The Petitioner's January 2019 motion could not, and did not, cure the 
deficiencies in his September 2018 appeal. 
Because the Petitioner has not overcome the summary dismissal of his appeal, we will not address the 
merits of the petition in great detail. Nevertheless, in an effort to inform the Petitioner that the above­
described technical and procedural issues are not the only obstacles to approval of the petition, we will 
discuss certain elements of the record. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires "evidence that the alien has sustained national or 
international acclaim and that his or her achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise." 
The same regulation provides that such evidence may take the form of "a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major international[ly] recognized award)." In the initial denial notice, the Director observed that 
the relevant legislative history named the Nobel Prize as an example of such an award. See H.R. Rep. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The 
Director also noted that the awarding of the Nobel Prize routinely attracts international attention. 
The Petitioner claims to have received such an award, in the form of a "Certificate of Recognition" 
"[?or being an outstanding individual" at the .__ ____________ ___.2016" event held 
by ~-I The Petitioner also claims to have "received ... international recognition for his 
contribution as Tech Specialist from~------~' We agree with the Director's conclusion 
that these accolades do not rise to the level of major, internationally recognized prizes or awards, on a 
par with the Nobel Prize. 
5 
One of the lesser regulatory criteria, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), calls for evidence of the alien's 
authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. The Petitioner states that he satisfies this criterion through customer reviews posted online on the 
website of a company that repairs ventilation and electrical systems. These reviews do not conform to 
any of the elements required by the regulation. The Petitioner is not the author of the reviews; the reviews 
are not scholarly articles; and the website is not a professional or major trade publication or other major 
media. The Director correctly determined that these customer reviews do not establish the Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Petitioner seeks permanent immigration benefits in a classification that, by law, is reserved for 
individuals who have earned sustained national or international acclaim at the top of their fields. The 
caliber of evidence submitted to support the petition does not rise close to this highly rarefied level of 
achievement and recognition. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The latest motion does not establish that our most recent decision was in error, and seeks to reach back 
to earlier stages of the proceeding that are no longer ripe for review on motion. The Petitioner has not 
overcome our determination that summary dismissal was the proper, and required, outcome when 
presented with an appeal that contained no specific allegations of error in fact or law. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24187228 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 2, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement s for the classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the noncitizen has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the noncitizen seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the noncitizen's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
I. ANALYSIS 
The record reflects the Petitioner is an electrical engineer. He obtained bachelor's and master's degrees 
in electrical engineering from the University of I I Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least 
three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have 
satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Documentation of receipt of lesser nationally or international recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in the field of endeavor; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that he met 
any of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner provides additional 
evidence and states that he submits "more objective evidence than personal statement." For the 
reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied any of the 
claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204. 5 (h)(3 )(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that a portable charging device, called !received a Red Dot 
award, and he provides information printed from the internet indicating it received a Red Dot award 
in 2019. In addition, the Petitioner provides a letter from the company that manufactures I I I confirming it will employ the Petitioner as an electrical engineer. The Petitioner contends 
that as a team member helping develop! I he was recognized with the Red Dot award. 
Although the Petitioner states he helped develop the product, the printout he submitted on appeal 
2 
named the designers of the product, and he was not named. Moreover, it appears that the Red Dot 
award was awarded to the product and the company that designed the product, and the Petitioner did 
not provide any evidence to indicate that he also received the award. Nor does the Petitioner submit 
sufficient information regarding the Red Dot award itself such that we can ascertain whether the 
process of winning that award aligns with this category's eligibility requirements. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides photographs of his "light and objective specs" as proof of his ability 
to make "better lights and my capacity to evaluate others work." The Petitioner provides photographs 
taken of what appears to be a machine, but he did not describe the photographs or the machine they 
depict. The photographs are not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner judges the work of others in 
the same or an allied field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also provides email correspondence he exchanged with an "industry" 
company "asking comments from me and my reply to them." The Petitioner also provides an online 
google translation of the email correspondence, since parts of it took place in the Mandarin Chinese 
language. It is not sufficient to carry the Petitioner's burden. First, we have no context of the 
conversation and the line of questioning for the Petitioner, and without additional information it is 
impossible to determine the Petitioner's role with this company. Moreover, any document prepared 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of the 
document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus 
supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
On appeal, in support of this criterion, the Petitioner submits two letters written by companies that 
were used to support H-1 B petitions filed on behalf of the Petitioner. The Petitioner states that he 
3 
assisted in inventing thel I a portable charging device. The Petitioner claims that the H-lB 
support letter from [ I stated the Petitioner "contributed intensively and extensively towards __ cutting-edge wireless charging products." Although the support letter outlines the duties the 
Petitioner will perform as an electrical engineer withl I it does not provide sufficient information 
regarding the level of the Petitioner's involvement in the development of this charging device. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence of the significance of this product in the 
field. Thus, the Petitioner did not demonstrate any original scientific contributions of major 
significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner also describes portable fusion as an invention, and wrote "unique pattern 
from experiment in I I City showing a huge impact on fusion industry" and provided 
photographs of a machine without any explanation. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility 
for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball 
Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The Petitioner has not sustained that burden. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11244076 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief technology officer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he has served as the chief technology officer for I , , I I since 2016. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a 
major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for four criteria. After reviewing 
all of the presented evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner meets the requirements of 
at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 1 The Petitioner provided articles posted on cbsnews.com (2), cnn.com, 
washingtonpost.com, axios.com, fortune.com, forbes.com (2), sfchronicle.com, reuters.com, ft.com, 
bloomberg.com, wired.com, wsj.com, ttnews.com (3), thedrive.com, freightwaves .com (2), 
businessinsider.com, mashable.com, and autonews.com. However, none of the articles reflect 
published material about the Petitioner. Rather, the articles show published material aboutl I 
In fact, 14 articles never mention the Petitioner, 7 articles briefly indicate his name as being a co­
founder 0£1 .... __ I as background information about the company, and 2 articles briefly quote the 
Petitioner regardinO technology andl I trucks. Articles that are not about an alien do 
not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 
(D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https :/ /www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. 
2 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that any of the articles represent published material about him 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 2 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Petitioner argues his eligibility for this criterion based on his "patented inventions, rave reviews 
about his work, and letters from leading experts." The record contains evidence of two recently 
approved patents listing the Petitioner as one of the inventors. In general, a patent recognizes the 
originality of an invention or idea but does not necessarily establish a contribution of major 
significance in the field. As discussed further below, although the Petitioner expresses optimism and 
others opine that technology using his patents shows promise, he did not demonstrate how the patents 
already qualify as contributions of major significance in the field, rather than prospective, potential 
impacts. Here, the significant nature of his patents has yet to be determined. 
Further, the Petitioner references articles that reported on I . I and its continuous testing of 
,__ ___ ___.I driving. For example, a 2019 article posted on forbes.com reported onl I being "the 
first company to test an on a stretch of U.S. highway -and it so be combining 
an I J system with al I operator standing by to I I the vehicle when 
necessary." Another 2019 article posted on autonews.com indicated that "thel I test was a 
one-off event, not a permanent switch .me==]s overall testing procedure," "it represents the first 
step in a grcdual proce~s in which suchc==] test will increase in frequency as the company eyes 
the start of1~_ ---~I commercial operations in the second half of 2020," and "[ e ]fforts such as 
I , Is last week are a step along the route to making I !trucking a reality." The samples 
indicated here, as well as the evidence discussed under the published material criterion, relate to I l's developing and current testing o~ !vehicles. The documentation, however, does 
not demonstrate that the Petitioner's patents have already significantly impacted the field in a major 
way. The record, for example, does not reflect that his patents resulted in widespread usage or 
influenced in a majorly, significant manner. Instead, the record shows the effect of his patents in 
limited means at the testing stage of a long process withl specu~rive reference about futuristic 
applicability. In fact, the Petitioner's brief states that"[ w ]hile s trucks will be able to navigate I I on highways, they willbej jwhen they exit highways," and "[t]his will transform 
the trucking industry by allowing truck drivers [to] enjoy a sedentary life." (emphasis added). 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
3 
Likewise, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters discussing his role in developing technology 
atl I. For instance, "[the Petitioner] architected the system from the beginning and used his skills 
to lead his engineering team through different phases of development" I I; and 
j I' unique approach is a combination of practical technology development and a deep 
understanding of the underlying economic and technological forces directing the US trucking market," 
and " the Petitioner's] efforts enable~ ~ to farther develop their important technology" 
~----~· Here, the letters credit the Petitioner with developing technology atl I without 
showing how his contributions are viewed in the overall field as being majorly significant. 3 
In addition, the letters speculate on the possibility and potential of the technology at some 
undetermined time. For example, "the I I aspects ofj Is system could be deployed 
tol I transportation systems," "provides a roadmap of how the trucking industry can apply I I systems," and "[t]hese technologies have certainly caused a shift in how the 
trucking indust[ will operate in the future, but they also have the potential to revolutionize a wide 
range of field" b. ( emphasis added). Although the letters opine on the possibility of 
the influence of the technology at some time in the future, they do not demonstrate how his patents 
and work a~ lhave already impacted, influenced, or affected the field in a majorly significant 
manner beyond the company. 
The letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining how his contributions have been 
majorly significant in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are 
of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 4 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
Finally, the Petitioner contends that I I invited him to speak at a conference discussing the 
future of the trucking industry." Besides submitting screenshots froml ~ confirming his 
speaking engagement, the Petitioner did not establish that his conference presentation resulted in an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. Publications and presentations are not 
sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See 
Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
5 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to published material and 
original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for two additional criteria on appeal, 
relating to leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. 6 
Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 
F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, 
concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and 
recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the record contains promising work of Starsky, the Petitioner did not establish that he is 
among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
In Re: 11198684 
 Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I.LAW
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i)the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through
extensive documentation,
(ii)the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of
extraordinary ability, and
(iii)the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively
the United States.
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicated employment as a professor in the department of mechanical engineering at 
the Universit~ !Nigeria since 2013. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only two of the 
evidentiary criteria relating to scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and leading or critical 
role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrates that he fulfills the judging 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), discussed further below. 
Because the Petitioner has shown that he satisfies the minimum requirement of at least three criteria, 
we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner earned a bachelor's of science degree in mechanical engineering 
froml 11 Jniversityl . 0 , I in 1997 and a doctor of philosophy from the University of I I in 2004. 4 As indicated above, the Petitioner has been employed as a professor 
at the University! I since 2013 and worked there as an associate professor from 2009 -2013. 
Previously, the Petitioner served as a senior lecturer atl I University (2008 -2009) 
and research fellow at the University I I (2006 -2007) and at the University of I I (2004 -2005). The Petitioner judged others, authored scholarly articles, and performed in 
leading or critical roles. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his personal and professional 
achievements reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. 
Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated in evaluating theses for postgraduate candidates and students 
for the University! 16 However, the Petitioner's judging experience involves 
evaluating the work of students and aspiring professionals rather than established, recognized 
professionals. Cf, Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Commr. 1994) (USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard). Further, he did not establish that these instances place him among 
the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expe1iise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner indicated on his resume that he has completed 34 credits for a master of science degree. 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 On appeal, the Petitioner submits a letter from Frontiers in Energy confirming that he reviewed a paper in~I --~ 
2019, after he filed his initial petition. In addition, he provides letters from two other journals (Energy and Power 
Engineering and Experimental in Fluids) generally indicating that he has judged papers for publication. but they do not 
state any dates that he performed his evaluations. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(1 ). The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he judged journal papers at the time he filed his petition. Further. 
while he presented letter requests for him evaluate staff for promotions, the Petitioner did not show that he actually 
completed the requests. 
3 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). He did not show, for example, how 
his experience in judging postgraduate candidates compares to others at the very top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his instances of judging contribute to a finding that 
he has a career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner 
did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his work judging 
postgraduate students, limited to the university level. Moreover, serving on a thesis examination board 
does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national 
or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others 
in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, 
acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that his judging experience places him 
among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automatically place one at the top of the field. 7 Although 
he submitted 25 authored articles, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. He did not submit evidence showing the 
significance of his authorships or how his overall publications compare to others who are viewed to 
be at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of his written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for articles authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other mechanical 
engineers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage 
is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided evidence 
reflecting that his published material has been cited almost 650 times, with his two highest cited 
articles receiving almost 150 citations. While the citation of his work shows that some in his field 
have referenced it, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a 
level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to his work 
represent attention at a level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
As it relates to his roles, the Petitioner served as director of special duties for the vice-chancellor at 
the University! I as well as a member on several committees and chairman at the International 
Conference of Mechanical Engineering, Energy Technology, and Management. However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received any national or international attention from his 
positions beyond the university or conference. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. The Petitioner did not show that his roles at the university and conference distinguished 
7 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
him, garnering a level of attention consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top 
of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not establish that his professional 
teaching career spanning approximately 12 years represents a career of acclaimed work and sustained 
national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The 
record does not reflect that any of his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner presented evidence reflecting that he received the.__ ________ __, Award for 
an outstandin~ lat the International Conference on Fluid Mechanics in 2003. While 
the conference acknowledged the Petitioner's poster, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he 
garnered national or international acclaim based on his receipt of the conference award, or that it 
represents an individual who is among the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, the Petitioner provided evidence of his membership with the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers and the Nigerian Society of Engineers. The petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate that his memberships with these societies are somehow remarkable or garnered sustained 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. For instance, the Petitioner did 
not submit evidence showing that his memberships resulted in widespread or significant attention. See 
56 Fed. Reg at 30704. In addition, he did not establish the prestigious nature of membership with 
these societies, or how his memberships reflect that small percentage who has risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that summarized his written work and indicate 
publication in journals without demonstrating that his contributions have been of major significance 
in the field. Instead, the letters speculate on the potential influence and on the possibility of being 
majorly significant at some point in the future. For instance, "[t]he findings reported in his works on 
.__ _____ _. can be applied in enhancingl I desi n" and " t his has great potentials for 
significant improvements inl I efficiency" "the novel findin s 
reported in [ the Petitioner's] thesis have many potential industrial applicl"-'-" ................... --,r-------,,.---....,...----i, I ~' "[t]his will be of great industrial benefits for of for enhanced 
flexibility and significant reduction of~------~" '------,------------' 
"[t]he findings reported in [the Petitioner's] Doctoral thesis o ~----~ 
applications inl I" I ~-
The letters do not contain sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include 
corroborating evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a 
solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that he has made impactful or influential 
contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the 
5 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(1 )(A) 
of the Act. The letters describe his work without showing how they rise to a level of major significance 
in the field and represent an individual who has garnered sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended 
for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the 
top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 10856895 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification through receipt 
of a major, internationally-recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who works through the medium of oil painting, and has worked in the past 
as a professor teaching design courses. She earned a Master of Arts degree in 1996 froml I 
University, and has published textbooks on display and lighting design. She states that she intends to 
open an art studio in the United States and continue to create and exhibit her paintings. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of her work at artistic exhibitions and her 
authorship of scholarly articles in her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets four 
additional evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the 
Director's findings regarding the display and authorship criteria, but also conclude that the evidence 
of her work as a judge for the I I Design A ward is sufficient to meet the requirements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). Therefore, because she has met the initial evidence 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, we will not analyze her claims 
to any additional criteria, but will consider the entirety of the record in a final merits analysis below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
1 We note that the Petitioner submitted new evidence along with its brief on appeal. Where, as here, a Petitioner has been 
put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, the AAO 
will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. Matter of Soriano, 19 l&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter of 
Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
2 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that she meets that standard. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner's career in the arts includes painting and exhibiting her oil 
paintings as an artist, as well as teaching and writing about display design as an associate professor. 
Because she has indicated that she intends to focus on her painting in the United States, we will first 
consider the evidence pertaining to her career as an artist. 
We initially note that much of the evidence pertaining to the Petitioner's activity as an artist is in the 
form of articles that were posted on websites or web portals such as sina.com, sohu.com, and 
ifeng.com. In support of her assertion that these should be considered to be professional media or 
other major media, and thus show that the posting of these articles reflects recognition she gained 
through the exhibitions of her work and awards she received, the Petitioner submitted reports showing 
statistics for these websites, including the number of visitors and rankings. For each set of evidence, 
the Petitioner refers to these rankings and asserts that they show that the website "and its subdomains" 
are major media. However, we will not assume that statistics for an entire web portal such as these 
apply to each of that portal's "channels," let alone every article posted within that portal. 
In addressing the final merits determination on appeal, the Petitioner initially refers to the evidence of 
her receipt of awards for her paintinr. The record shows that the first of two awards she received in 
2018 was the I Award" at the I I Summer Exhibition in 2018. 
Evidence from the host venue,I I Art Museum, as well as articles posted on artron.net and 
sohu.net, verifies that out of the 280 artists who participated in the exhibition, a total of 30 received 
the same award as the Petitioner, and that two artists out of that group received an "annual award." 
The evidence therefore shows that the Petitioner did not receive the top prize from this exhibition, and 
that approximately one out of every nine artists who participated received the same award as she. In 
addition, while the Petitioner submitted evidence from the art museum's website which included a list 
of other exhibitions it has held since 2016, including th0 edition of the I O J Summer Exhibition 
held in 2017, this evidence does not demonstrate that it or the exhibition are prestigious or well-known 
such that this award was nationally or internationally recognized and brought acclaim of that scope to 
the Petitioner. Further, given the number of prizes awarded at the same level as the Petitioner's, this 
evidence does not demonstrate her place as one of the small percentage of artists at the top of her field. 
The Petitioner also submitted additional articles about the 20181 !summer Exhibition 
which were posted on the websites mentioned above, as well as sina.com. We note that one of the 
articles, initially posted on sohu.com, was later posted without change on two other websites, although 
different sources and editors are listed. This article described the opening ceremony and speeches, 
lists the names of the awarded artists, and indicates that more than 100 people attended the opening 
ceremony. However, as noted above, the posting of these articles on popular web portals is not 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner garnered national or international acclaim from this award, 
as the evidence regarding viewership or traffic is much too broad to provide information regarding the 
viewership of these individual articles. Further, the fact that the same words and pictures were used 
in each article does not reflect widespread interest in the exhibition, awards or artists, as the opinion 
of only a single source is provided. 
3 
The second award highlighted by the Petitioner was her designation as 1 I Artist" by the 
.__ ______________ _.!Education Organization Committee, also in 2018. An article 
from artron.net explains that the ten recipients of this award were selected by several rounds of online 
public voting, but the basis or criteria of this voting is not explained here or elsewhere in the record. 
It also indicates that as one of the top three vote-getters, the Petitioner signed a contract with a 
multimedia company through which she "will enjoy the global promotion of l _::J 
for half a year." In addition, the work of all ten recipients were displayed in an exhibition at theLJ I I Expo. However, a program from this expo shows that one of the Petitioner's works 
was included among that of many artists. Notably, hers was one of six works pictured on pageD of 
the Togrm, as part of a section titled "Original Artwork Display and Trading Area" which began on 
page of the program. Further, the program does not mention her selection as a l I 
Artist." Although the artron.net article shows that there was a ceremony for the ten winning artists in 
this competition, which included the signing of contracts by the three top winners, the evidence 
indicates that it was just one part of a much larger industry event. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence showing that she received a "Nomination Award" for her entry 
for the design of the l l Award" trophy in 2000. An article in Beijing 
Youth Daily indicates that hers was 1 of 4 design proposals selected out of30 submissions, and invites 
readers to submit votes. A later article published in the same periodical announces that another design 
was selected for the trophy after 500 votes were received and a panel of expert judges conferred. 
Although the Petitioner submitted evidence that the circulation of Beijing Youth Daily was about 
600,000 in 2004, suggesting that this contest and her status as a finalist brought her acclaim in the 
field, the relatively small number of submissions and votes received for this competition does not 
reflect widespread interest in either the Petitioner's design or her finalist status in the competition, or 
acclaim from either the general public or other artists. 
Regarding the public display of her artwork, in addition to the two group exhibitions described above, 
the evidence shows that the Petitioner's paintings were also displayed at other venues, in both group 
and solo exhibitions. These include solo exhibitions at thd I art center ( also referred to 
as the.....,.,=========r-----'Art Place") that took place from I DO 18, 
and thel IArt Space from I l 2018. As with the 20181 I 
Summer Exhibition, the evidence related to this first exhibition consists of two articles, one of which 
was posted on three different websites/web portals and appears to be attributed to the same individual 
or group. In addition, we note that several individuals are repeatedly named as participants or in other 
roles associated with these exhibitions. For example.__ _____ __,is named as the owner o~ I I I Art Space, but is also pictured and identified as a speaker at the I I exhibit 
and th~ I Summer Exhibition. The record does not include evidence which demonstrates that 
either of these solo exhibitions attracted other than local interest or garnered acclaim for the Petitioner 
and her work outside of her group of acquaintances and colleagues. Similarly, although a solo exhibit 
of her work d I Germany in 2015 might suggest broader acclaim for the Petitioner, the record 
shows that that exhibit also received only local attention from a German newspaper. 
Beyond art exhibitions in galleries and shows, the Petitioner's work was also displayed in printed 
publications. This includes four of her works pictured on two pages, along with a briefbiogra~ 
theC]2010 edition of Art Observation, which the evidence indicates is sponsored by theL__J 
Academy of Art. Although only partially translated, this evidence shows that the journal also 
4 
presented the works of other artists as well as art news and reviews. A similar article appeared in 
China Financial Culture inl 12019, but also includes critiques of the Petitioner's work from 
five artists, art professors and critics. Another article] described as a "theme essay" submitted by a 
reader and published in the D 2018 edition of the I magazine Community, describes the 
Petitioner's work and includes photographs of two of her paintings. However, the evidence regarding 
these publications does not show that they have a significant level of circulation or visibility, in the art 
field or the general public. Statistics froml I also known as the I I 
database, show that both Art Observation and Community appear to have limited annual circulation, 
and other metrics for the former publication do not compare fa~rably f° those provided in the record 
for another publication, Art & Design. Also, no information fro was provided regarding China 
Financial Culture, and the websites from which information about this magazine were provided do 
not appear to be linked to the magazine or the publisher. Although these materials contain favorable 
critiques of the Petitioner's work, the evidence does not show that they were widely read or distributed 
in the art world or in the general public, and thus are not indicative of acclaim at the national or 
international level. 
In addition to the media items discussed above which reported on exhibitions of her work or displayed 
or critiqued her work, the Petitioner also submitted two interviews of her in which she discusses her 
art and inspirations, both of which were posted to websites in early 2019. One of these interviews was 
conducted by the previously-mentioned! I and posted on sohu.com, while the other was 
posted on artron.net and attributed tol !Art Network Special Report." As we initially stated, we 
will not consider the evidence regarding the popularity of web portals such as sohu.com to reflect upon 
every material published within its channels or subdomains. Certainly the fact that interviews of her 
were conducted and published reflects some interest in her and her paintings, but the Petitioner has 
not provided sufficient evidence to show that these interviews were widely read and thus garnered 
acclaim for the Petitioner at the national or international level. 
The record also includes reference letters from artists and others in the art world who provide their 
thoulhts on the contributions the Petitioner has made to the field. 2 I l an artist and Chairman 
of th_ I indicates that he met the Petitioner in May 2018, and was 
immediately attracted to and impressed by her painting. He describes some of her works, and states 
that she "has completely formed her own unique style of painting," and that her "innovations have 
been a priceless contribution to the art society ... "I I describes the Petitioner's paintings 
as "innovative and different from others," and notes that some have been published in magazines and 
exhibited at the 20181 ~xpo. Others also use the term "innovative" when describing 
her work, and similarly reference the articles on the websites and in the magazines discussed above. 
However, as we noted in our analysis of those articles, they do not show that the Petitioner has received 
sustained and widespread acclaim for her work. We farther note that most of the letter writers state 
that they personally know the Petitioner or have a connection wit~ !University, which she 
also attended, and thus do not indicate that any innovations she has made have been widely acclaimed. 
Also, although the statements in these letters describe her work as innovative, they do not indicate that 
others in the field have adopted elements of or been inspired by the Petitioner's work in creating their 
own art. 
2 All of the reference letters have been reviewed, including those not specifically mentioned in this decision. 
5 
While the Petitioner did not claim the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x), she did submit evidence 
of the commercialization of some of her work. A letter from an interior designer indicates that he and 
his colleagues "introduce[d] [the Petitioner] and her works to many of our high-end clients," and 
mentions two specific hotels to which her work was recommended. In addition to not explicitly 
indicating that the Petitioner's paintings were purchased for public display by these clients, these 
statements are not supported by documentary evidence such as contracts or sales receipts. Additional 
evidence regarding sales of her work include a contract with a silk production company planning to 
use the image of her work in their products, and an agreement regarding the auctioning of two of the 
Petitioner's paintings. However, the record does not include evidence confirming the sale of these 
items and the compensation received by the Petitioner. Therefore, this evidence is not sufficient to 
demonstrate that her work as an artist has been successfully commercialized to the extent that 
demonstrates acclaim in the field of art at the national or international level. 
We note although the Petitioner's paintings were included in Art Observation in 2010, the majority of 
the evidence regarding her work as an artist comes from the two years immediately preceding the 
filing of her petition. Even if we were to find that she has garnered national or international acclaim 
for her paintings, which per the above discussion we do not, we would not find that that acclaim 
occurred over a sustained period as required. 
Turning to the academic and design aspect of the Petitioner's career, the record shows that she 
authored textbooks in the area of display and lighting desi n which was sufficient to satisf the 
criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). These,....;i:.:.:n;.::.;cl:..::u:.:::d.::..e....._ ________ ---r-____ ---; 
two editions of (2007 and 2011 ), an_-.__ ____ __. 
A letter from the publisher of.__ ____ __, states that 5900 copies of the book were printed and 
that they "sold well and received very well accolades [sic] by teachers and students in professional art ~-" Additional evidence indicates that it was one of nine textbooks listed for a course taught at 
L___JUniversity, and was available at several libraries in China. 
A similar letter from China Youth Press states that the 2011 edition ofl I was printed 
seven times for a total of 16,000 copies, and "has been widely used by related majors in more than 30 
colleges and universities in various regions of the company." In addition, a letter dated July 2010 
from China Youth Press, presumably referring to the 2007 edition of this book, states that it is a 
national-level planning textbook for general higher education and the 
~en_v_i_ro_n_m-en_t_a_l_a_rt_d_e_s~ign textbook o±1 I" As withl I 
evidence was submitted showing that it is available in several libraries in China, as well as at least one 
inl I but there was no direct evidence of its use as a textbook by universities other than I O !University. In addition, although a notice from the Chinese Ministry of Education regarding 
the topics and selection of textbooks for the~--------~ was submitted, it only describes 
the process for review and publication of textbooks, and does not indicate any special status afforded 
to selected textbooks. 
Some of the reference letters previously mentioned make reference to the Petitioner's work as a teacher 
and author, but do not offer specific additional information regarding this activity beyond the evidence 
discussed above. While that evidence indicates that the Petitioner had some degree of success as an 
author of textbooks in the design field, it is not sufficient to demonstrate that this success placed her 
in the small percentage of teachers at the top of the art and design field. 
6 
As stated in our brief review of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we find that the 
Petitioner's appointment as a judge for thd I Creative Works A ward in 2018 was sufficient 
to demonstrate that she served as a judge of the work of others in her field, specifically other designers. 
The evidence shows that she served on a panel that judged ten entries which included paper tube 
furniture buildin block to s, a zodiac calendar, and a storage box, and that this event was a part of 
~---------__.Week and held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the I I 
~-~ Chamber of Commerce. 
However, while her solicitation for participation in this event demonstrates recognition of the 
Petitioner's status as an expert in the field of design through her work as a teacher and textbook author, 
the evidence does not establish that this was an honor indicative of national or international acclaim 
in the field, especially considering her focus in the areas ofl landl !design. Althou~h the
1 Petitioner did conduct review in her field in this role, we note that the articles submitted about th I I Awards stress its focus on the I I and I I industries. For instance, the 
I I 2018 article posted to sina.com states that the aim is to recognize "the quality of human 
settlements and urban construction and encouraging the industry to continue to innovate." In 
describing the review process, it notes that the jldging c1mmittee includes "manyl I industry 
scholars, senior experts inl !building and housing, executives of brand development 
companies, senior executives of well-known consultants, and experts in brand building in thO I I industry." Another article posted to xinhua.net notes that the award ceremony included a round 
table discussion with executives from I ponstruction companies, development companies, 
Internet companies, andl I innovation companies," and that the Chairman of thel I 
Award Committee spoke about the need for transformation in the construction industry. Further, 
another article on xinhua.net which focused on the specific creative works award for which the 
Petitioner served as a reviewer acknowledges that the reviewers included artists, but notes that most 
of the designers participating have a background in architecture. This evidence does not show that the 
Petitioner garnered recognition in the design field through her participation as a jidge in trs e~ 
that her selection as a reviewer reflects a standing as one of the small percentage o andl______J 
designers at the top of the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work as an artist and designer is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
7 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12685089 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chief executive officer (CEO), seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner serves as the CEO for I ~, "which is al I that 
empowers retail and service employees! I I !'1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only one criterion, leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six 
additional criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence, the record does not reflect that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards, and 
they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
Petitioner claims that he "has been the recipient of significant venture capital funding" froml I 
I 1,1 !, and I I However, the Petitioner did 
not establish that he actually received the venture capital funding. 
The record contains a letter frortj I, managing partner a~ l who stated that "[ w ]e only 
invest in B2B software companies" and "[ o ]ur network is particularly valuable to the B2B companies in 
which we invest." In addition, the record includes a letter froml I managing director at I I who indicated that "[the Petitioner's] organization has received an award of venture capital 
1 See page 3 of the Petitioner's initial cover letter. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https :/ /www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. 
2 
fro Lr----------" "[the Petitioner] was instrumental inC]s receipt of venture capital 
.__ ___ ----.-__ ,__ _ _.," and "[the Petitioner's] excellence as a technology entrepreneur is a 
primary reason fo s recei t of venture capital from~--.=====.--___.•" Further, the record 
reflects a letter fro.i.._ __ ~---------' managing director atl I who stated that l I 
provides mentorship-driven seed-stage investment services for technology-oriented companies" and 
I I is extremely competitive, with only 9 companies selected (includingLJ out of over 1,000 
applications." The Petitioner also offered evidence of financial documentation showing□' s receipt 
of the venture capital froml 1,1 I, and I I The description of this type of evidence in 
the regulation provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or pri;es, a1 opposed 
to his or her employer's receipt of the awa1 ds or rrizes. 3 Although the evidence shows tha received 
the funding froml~_~l I I and the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received the 
venture capital funding consistent with this regulatory criterion. 4 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that receiving venture capital funding qualifies as a prize or 
award. The Petitioner provides archived screenshots from uscis.gov entitled, "Understanding the EB-1 
Requirements for Extraordinary Ability," stating under the awards criterion:5 
Note: If you have received venture capital funding or have been awarded a grant, you 
may submit evidence of the funding or grant awarded, including the amount of the funding 
or grant criteria used in awarding the funding or grant. Evidence of other investments, 
such as those from an accredited angel investor, may also be used. 
( emphasis added). 
The screenshots indicate guidance on May 4, 2017; however, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
this information is binding in this proceeding, or that the guidance was in effect in any form when the 
Petitioner filed the petition in 2020. In addition, the prior guidance provided that the alien received 
the venture capital funding, which, as discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish his actual receipt 
of it. 
Furthermore, assuming that venture capital could be considered a prize or award, this would not mean 
that any and all venture capital, from whatever source, is a nationally or internationally recognized 
prize or award. Although the Petitioner provided background material about the companies, such as 
screenshots from the companies' websites, and information regarding capital venture funding in 
general, the Petitioner did not explain or show how the evidence demonstrates the national or 
international recognition of the specific venture capital funding froni O [ I I, andl I 
as a prize or award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner also argues that he "was awarded the 20181 I Award, 
byl I Business." As discussed above, the description of this type of evid~e-n-ce-in-th_e_r_e_g_u-la-ti-o~n 
provides that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
4 While the letters credited the Petitioner for securing the venture capital funding on behalf of 0, we considered his 
role under the leading or critical role criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). . 
5 The Petitioner previously provided archived screenshots from uscis.gov entitled, "Understanding O-lA Requirements." 
3 
employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 6 Although he provided screenshots from I I reporting thatD received the award, the Petitioner did not establish that he 
received the 20181 !Award. In fact, the award category was for~-------~ rather 
than for individuals, indicating the Petitioner's ineligibility for the award. 
Finally, the Petitioner contends for the first time on appeal that he "was also awarded as one of thee=] I , lin 2018 byl I," and he "regret[s] that [he] did not include evidence of this 
award previously." As the Petitioner did not make this claim or present supporting documentation to 
the Director in his initial filing or after the Director afforded him an opportunity in a request for 
evidence, we will not consider this additional claim and supporting evidence in our adjudication of 
this appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (providing that if"the petitioner 
was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to provide it for the 
record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that 
"we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter 
ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 (BIA 1988). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not show that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought. 7 The Petitioner argues that membership inl I 
fulfills this criterion. The record contains a letter froml I managing director at I I who stated: 
I submit this statement as evidence of [the Petitioner's] membership inl I as a 
founder in our program beginning in the Spring of 2016. [The Petitioner's] 
membership in I I is the result of his outstanding achievements and 
extraordinary ability in the field of technology entrepreneurship. 
I receives thousands of applications per year, all through our standardized 
~o_n_h __ n_e_a_p~plication. I I focuses only on the top one percent of applicants and 
admits less than one percent of applicants.I I admits only the most outstanding 
founders who are proposing products that solve real problems or create meaningful 
innovations. The primary focus of the application process is on the skill, talent, ability, 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6. 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
4 
and achievements of the applicant founders. We only select those founders who have 
with extraordinary business and technical skills, who have proven their outstanding 
achievements through demonstrable progress on their businesses, products, or 
prototypes. 
As ~ I member, [the Petitioner] has successfully navigated our rigorous and 
extremely selective process that demands outstanding achievements and extraordinary 
ability .... 
Although he continuously repeats regulatory language and terminology,! I's statements 
are not supported by the documentation contained in the record, nor do they demonstrate that the 
Petitioner meets the requirements of this regulatory criterion. Repeating the language of the statute or 
regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. 
Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr Associates, Inc. v. 
Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
In addition to press coverage ofi I, the Petitioner also submitted screenshots froml I' 
website promoting itself: advertising its benefits, and listing fonded and participating companies. 8 
However, the documentation does not showl I' membership requirements or selection criteria. 
Associations may have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded to the 
alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by recognized 
national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which 
classification is sought. 9 Althoug~ I asserted thatl l"select[ s] those founders who 
have with extraordinary business and technical skills, who have proven their outstanding achievements 
through demonstrable progress on their businesses, products, or prototypes," the screenshots do not 
reflect membership requirements as a "founder" to corroborate his claims. Further,I l did 
not elaborate and explain how "demonstrable progress" portrays outstanding achievements consistent 
with this regulatory criterion. 
Finally] I did not indicate whether recognized national or international experts, as 
required by this regulatory criterion, judge the outstanding achiev~ments fo{ membership. Further, 
although the Petitioner rovided a cover a e entitled, "List of l J Jud es," and attached 
screenshots entitled,~--------------~-----~--~-----~ I I' which lists individuals' names and companies, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the 
mentors :articipate in the judging of outstanding achievements and determine membership with I J Rather, according to the screenshots froml I website, the mentors "will help you 
with product development, market fit, and who will also provide valuable introductions to help grow 
your company -fast." The Petitioner did not show that the mentors are also responsible for judging 
membership withl I Even if the mentors judge membership, the Petitioner did not establish 
8 The Petitioner also provided numerous screenshots ranging on various topics such as start-up and accelerator programs, 
lead investors, and venture capital financing; however, he did not demonstrate how they show the membership 
requirements ot1 I In addition, the Petitioner offered screenshots from onstartups.com entitled,! 0 I I I" reflecting advice froml lin submitting an application. 
Although the screenshots reflect tips in preparing an application, they do not describe any membership requirements with I I 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
5 
that they are comprised of recognized national or international experts as he only provided their names 
and companies without evidence of their recognition or acclaim. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 10 The Petitioner argues that he "provided examples from more than 20 publications that 
were about him and his company," but he only addresses two of those examples on appeal. 
Specifically, the Petitioner submitted an article entitled, 'I I 
'-------------~ 'which included the date and author, posted on bloomberg.com. The 
article, however, does not reflect published material about the Petitioner relating to his work. Rather, 
the article pertains to anD developed by D in which the Petitioner comments about the app. 
Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. 
Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles 
regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts: 
[His] interview oQBusiness Network, in particular, is a concerning oversight. He 
was personally interviewed and featured on a 4:00 minute segment on one of the 
network's most popular news programs,.__ _______ _,' on! • 12017. 
On this panel he discussed his contributions made to the drafting of worker scheduling 
legislation in 1 1 and his ex5ertise on worker schedulinr legislation in three 
municipalities including! _ ,I J and I _ His visual presence 
being interviewed on a panel of four industry experts is shown through the screenshots. 
_ _ _ Video evidence of this interview se ment can be found online by searching "[The 
Petitioner]" and '---------....--------1,c=J Business." If the journalists had only 
wanted to share information about.___~ the company, there would have been no need 
for [the Petitioner] to appear in person on the panel. Or to appear at all. His presence 
there was intrinsically about hi~, on the program he spoke about his personal 
efforts advocating in front of thel__J City Council and other government bodies to 
make smart policy decisions are made about hourly workers_ 
The Petitioner submitted eight still shots from the interview_ However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how any of the still shots reflect published material about him relating to his work. While 
the still shots indicate an interview on I O I' they do not corroborate his claim that 
the interview was about him. In fact, based on the still shots, the interview appears to be aboutO's 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
6 
D 11 Furthermore, the burden remains with the Petitioner to provide sufficient evidence to support 
his claims rather than informing us to perform an Internet search. It is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). In addition, the Petitioner did 
not include the author of the material. The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not 
optional but a regulatory requirement. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As it relates to other items not specifically addressed by the Petitioner, the majority of the items do 
not include the titles, dates, and/or authors of the material. Furthermore, with the exception of one 
item from f6s.com, the remaining items do not show published material about him relating to his 
work.12 Althougl th~y riefly mention his name or quote him for source material, they are not about 
him but pertain to For example, the techstartups.com screenshots reflect an article aboutO 
receiving fonding in which the Petitioner is quoted relating to the offerings of1 I the article does 
not discuss him. In fact, the Petitioner is not even mentioned in some of the items. Moreover, with 
the exception of screenshots posted on usatoday.com and wsj.com, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that any of the websites constitute professional or major trade publications or other major.13 While he 
provided statistics, such as global rankings, country rankings, category rankings, and total visits from 
SimilarWeb, the Petitioner did not explain or show the significance of the figures, indicating major 
status or standing.14 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner argues his eligibility for this criterion based on "as a member atj I " Th: 
record reflects that the Petitioner provided an email fro neral manager o~~---~J 
to the Petitioner, relating to information about "Becomin: '· a screenshot from 
.__ ____ -,---~~-......-· g an overview ofl Jane..,.....-~~-...,_ ____ __, program 
mana to the Petitioner, welcoming him to~----~ and a screenshot from 
'.========r__.listing the Petitioner as a mentor. In addition, the Petitioner submitted a letter from l CEO of I lwho stated that he is "familiar with [the Petitioner's] work as a 
mentor atl t' and "[the Petitioner] provided guidance to web and mobile startups on 
business development, sharing his wisdom to other entrepreneurs."15 
11 For instance, the still shots reflecd 
I I" ........,,______,,.,,.,,.....---,------,--....,........,.--'. '1 t ancil , ,H,__ __ __. 
12 The screenshot from f62.com does not include the title and date and appears to be self-authored. 
13 The screenshots from usatoday.com li{===limang ore of the best places to work without any mention of the Petitioner, 
and the screenshots from wsj.com relate~~--~-.....,....,...~- with the Petitioner briefly quoted for the article. 
14 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics)+'-·------, 
15 The Petitioner provided additional reference letters froml I CEO of ... l ---,---- ... 1..:uauWi<I I I 
CEO o~ I as evidence i;uder bisl I However, neither letter mentiondor indicates the 
Petitioner's participation as al !mentor. 
7 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
of allied field of specialization.16 The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate how the evidence 
shows that he participated as a judge of the work of others. He did not establish that his participation 
as a mentor involved judging the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, 
the emails and screenshots from I I do not contain probative information detailing whom, 
what, where, and when he mentored and how such mentoring corresponds to judging the work of 
others. Likewise, whilel !indicated that the Petitioner "provided guidance," he did not 
further elaborate and explain how guiding, assisting, or advising demonstrates participation as a judge 
of the work of others. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. 17 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner indicates that he "led the team that develope~'s source 
code to develop the core technology which has revolutionized the wayl manageLJ I I' He does not claim, nor does the record reflect, that he developed the source code. 
Although the Petitioner's role in leading the team in developing the source code is more appropriate 
under the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), the Petitioner's argument 
must show how his leadership constitutes an original contribution of major significance in the field in 
order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner argues that "his original contribution has been licensed by maJor retailers for 
approximately $1.8 million" and references licensing agreements and a '--------------' 2019 Year End Report. Although the evidence shows licensing agreement~ with retailers, such as I l,i II 1,1 I, and[ ] the Petitioner 
did not establish how entering into service agreements shows that his leadership rises to an original 
contribution of major significance in the field. He did not demonstrate that the securing of subscription 
~ments with retailers significantly impacted or influenced the overall field in a major way beyond 
L_J 18 Moreover, the Petitioner did explain the importance of receiving $1.8 million for the 
subscription license and how that equates to being majorly significant in the field. 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
17 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
18 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not conoborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
8 
In addition, the Petitioner contends that he submitted two testimonial letters that "describe in detail 
how [he] has led I t and "describe his original contributions to the field of technology 
entrepreneurship that resulted from him being extraordinary in this field." The letters, however, do 
not contain detailed, specific information explaining how the Petitioner's leadership has resulted in 
original contributions of ma·or significance in the field; instead, the letters make broad statements. 
For instance, L_ ____ -r--_.___.,,o-founder of I I referenced an article published in 
Techcrunch that "discuss[ed~_~and [the Petitioner's] work as bringing al ~ I 
experience to the front lines, with employees in need of products that solve problems" The record 
reflects screenshots of an article posted on techcrunch.com that reported od I indicated that I I received fonding, and quoted the Petitioner about the purpose of the app. The article does not 
mention or address the Petitioner's leadership and how it has affected the field in a significant manner. 
Moreover, I btated that as the founder and CEO, 1 I has significantly changed this 
business sector, and experienced remarkable success securin business partnerships where the I ] 
D..is_ utilized by international companies includin I I, I.__ ___ __.! c=J, I l andl ~ Again_,__ __ __,does not describe how the Petitioner has 
"significantly changed this business sector" through his leadership in the greater field other than 
securing business partnerships wit" I 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter frorr I vice president atl l, who discussed ,..::.:-;;.;..:.::....:::;...:..;:::~------,----J....C....:C.:....:.....i:..::...::..:....:.:c..::.::::..:....:c..:...,,. ___ w.....;~;:___:;.::..:....:...;;.;.::_.::..:....:c..., 
the prospective benefits of thel such as 1 
1.__ _________________ __.f' "billions of cost can be saved on both the corporate 
and employee side," and "[t]his will help minimum wage workers earn more income." (emphasis 
added). I ~ hypothesizes on the effect of thel I at some undetermined time in the 
future withc7ut showjng pow it has already significantly impacted the field in a major way. 
Furthermore(,,_.----~' does not address how the Petitioner's leadership has greatly influenced or 
affected the overall field outside ofj I 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual 
influence or high impact his leadership has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate 
how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent 
work add value. 19 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not 
add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this 
criterion.20 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. 
Att): Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
19 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
20 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
9 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, 
the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a 
court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant 
petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of 
another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, 
at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies the criteria relating to awards, memberships, 
published material, judging, and original contributions. Although the Petitioner claims eligibility for 
an additional criterion on appeal, relating to high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we need not 
reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. 21 Accordingly, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner serves as a CEO of a company, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
21 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
10 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25592138 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). After the Texas Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), we dismissed a subsequent 
appeal after which the Petitioner filed a motion to reopen and reconsider that we dismissed for being 
filed outside of the permitted timeframe . Now, she files a motion to reopen relating to her previous 
untimely motions, but we will dismiss this filing. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5( a)(l )(i) provides that a filing party must file a motion to reopen 
within 30 days of the decision, but it also contains a provision that allows U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) to evaluate whether the failure to file within that timeframe was: (1) 
reasonable and (2) beyond the control of the filing party. If the party meets both requirements , USCIS 
has the option to exercise its discretion to excuse the failure to timely file the motion to reopen. 
Within this motion filing, the Petitioner offers two reasons her most recent motions were filed 
untimely , and she requests we accept them as adequate to excuse the late filing. First, she states her 
spouse was diagnosed with COVID-19 causing the family to quarantine, which resulted in a delay in 
filing the previous motion. The Petitioner's spouse was diagnosed with COVID-19 on May 24, 2022, 
and the due date for the previous motion was June 11, 2022. Although she relies the need to quarantine 
as a reason for her delay, the family received professional notice of the virus's presence on May 24. 
The government' s guidance on quarantining at that time was to isolate for five days. CDC Newsroom , 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Dec. 27, 2021), 
https:/ /www .cdc.gov/media/releases/2021/s 1227-isolation-quarantine-guidance.html. That 
recommended timeframe made the family's isolation period through May 29, leaving her 13 days to 
file the motion with USCIS. The Petitioner has not demonstrated the delay in filing was reasonable 
and beyond her control based on her spouse's positive COVID-19 test results. 
Moving to her second reason, she claims she sent the package containing the motion through the U.S. 
Postal Service (USPS) on June 11, 2022, to be delivered on June 13, 2022. As we previously noted, 
the Petitioner was required to file her previous motion by June 11, 2022. The date of filing is not the 
date of submission (here June 11, 2022) but instead it is the date of actual receipt with the required fee 
(here June 13, 2022). See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(7)(i). 
The Petitioner also describes a set of events after June 11 that hindered her ability to file the motion. Even 
if we set aside the circumstances the Petitioner describes that followed her June 11 submission, she still 
did not timely file the previous motion as the due date was June 11, the same day she turned the package 
over to the USPS at 11 :43 am. The annotations from USPS on the package reflected its scheduled 
delivery date was on June 13, 2022, two days outside of the Petitioner's 93-day window to file her 
previous motion. The Petitioner did not establish this delay was reasonable and beyond her control. 
As the Petitioner has not demonstrated the delay in filing her previous motion was reasonable and 
beyond her control, it is unnecessary that we decide whether to exercise our discretion to excuse such 
a delay. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25610036 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). The Nebraska Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition), and we dismissed a 
subsequent appeal. We next dismissed five additional motions he filed and the matter is now before 
us on his sixth motion, which is a motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner bears the burden 
of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter 
of Chawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the combined 
motions. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration , establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and demonstrate that the 
decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3) . A motion that does not satisfy the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(4). 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter. The issues here 
are whether the Petitioner: ( 1) has submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to 
warrant reopening , and (2) has established that we incorrectly applied the law or USCIS policy in 
dismissing his fifth combined motion to reopen and reconsider. The dismissal basis within our most 
recent decision on the Petitioner's fifth motion was his failure to meet motion filing requirements in his 
fourth motion, and it was not related to his eligibility under this classification . 
And the matters the Petitioner must first overcome within this motion are limited to the issues 
discussed within our most recent decision; the decision on their fifth motion. General support that a 
motion must first overcome the most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one 
has to file a motion after the most recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity 
who made the latest decision. This demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the 
most recent adverse decision before the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose 
in a previous petition, appeal, or motion filing. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner addresses numerous decisions throughout this process, but he 
does not directly take on our most recent dismissal of his motions in our October 31, 2022 decision. 
He discusses the merits of his petition filing harkening back to the Director's original January 2019 
decision and our two subsequent decisions on his appeal and first motion. Those relate to the awards, 
membership, leading or critical role, and contributions of major significance claims. The Petitioner's 
opportunity to make the arguments relating to these past decisions was in the filing that immediately 
followed each of those decisions. We reiterate that the Petitioner must first address the contents of 
our most recent decision from October 2022, but he does not adequately do so here. 
For these reasons, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his fifth motion 
dismissal through new evidence in this motion to reopen, nor has he established that the decision was 
based on an incorrect application oflaw or USCIS policy necessary to meet the requirements for filing 
a motion to reconsider. Although the Petitioner generally asserts that USCIS failed to consider his 
documentary evidence, he does not address what material this office failed to consider in our October 
2022 dismissal. 
We also address the numerous motion filings based on the original petition. Multiple motion filings 
serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in immigration 
proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to remain in the 
United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. 
Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). USCIS has the 
latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely can create 
endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government resources attending 
to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing party bears a "heavy 
burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with each subsequent 
motion filing. Id. 
Generally, when a previous motion was dismissed because the filing party failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements of a motion, a subsequent motion filing must first overcome the shortcomings within the 
decision that immediately preceded the current filing. And after a filing party has filed a significant 
number of motions, it becomes increasingly difficult to overcome each sequential preceding 
decision-in seriatim fashion-to eventually return to the eligibility claims they originally asserted. 
In some instances, simply refiling a new petition could be a more expeditious and less burdensome 
method to possibly receive a favorable decision on a petition. While we do not suggest that this 
Petitioner should abandon his efforts of filing future motions with this office and instead file a new 
petition, it is a factor he may wish to consider. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should 
either reopen the proceedings, nor has he established we should reconsider our October 31, 2022 
decision. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 21983241 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner holds a bachelor's degree in media communications and a fine arts degree in film 
production. She has worked in the film industry in her home country as a director and a producer. 
Her work in the industry led to her founding a film festival in the United States in the genres of horror, 
science fiction, and suspense short films. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met several of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion relating to judging, and we 
agree with that assessment. But the Director determined she had not satisfied the criteria associated 
with prizes or awards, membership, published material, authorship of scholarly articles, or a leading 
or critical role. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet each of those except for published material. As the 
Petitioner does not contest the published material criterion on appeal, she has abandoned those claims 
within these proceedings. See Matter of Zhang, 27 I&N Dec. 569, 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) (finding that 
an issue not appealed is deemed as abandoned). After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude she has not met the antecedent procedural step of satisfying at least three regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director indicated some of the Petitioner's claims were inadequate as she was not the recipient of the 
accolades and instead the recognition was directed towards productions in which she was associated. 
The Director broadly decided that none of the evidence the Petitioner provided demonstrated the prizes 
or awards were nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field. The Director 
specifically noted the record only established the piece the Petitioner co-produced, I I 
I I that was recognized for best editing and best topical documentary at the Emmy 2019 
competition, only amounted to regional recognition because the ' Chapter is the regional 
2 
chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences that represents" a segment of the 
southeast portion of the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner offers a biography of Adam Sharp, President and Chief Executive Officer of 
the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. The explanation the Petitioner provides for 
this evidence is that Mr. Sharp oversees "the annual presentation of the coveted Emmy 
Awards ... proving that I regional Emmy Awards is part of the National Academy of 
Television Arts & Sciences." 
Simply because the I regional awards program is in some way associated with this prestigious 
entity is not adequate to meet the regulations mandate here. This criterion contains several evidentiary 
elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. According to the plain language of the 
regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national is the recipient of the prizes or the 
awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally recognized; and (3) each prize or award 
is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
Thel !Regional Emmys are awards granted by thel !Chapter of the National Academy 
of Television Arts and Sciences. The I I Chapter is one of 19 regional chapters and the I I 
Regional Emmy Awards are distinct from the Emmy Award which corresponds with the Academy, 
Tony, or Grammy Award. The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences website reflects 
that "[e]ach Chapter awards Emmys in their region .... " A few Words About Our Regional Chapters, 
National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (Feb. 1, 2023), https://theemmys.tv/chapters/. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated honors issued by this regional chapter carry the level 
of recognition of a high-level award from The Academy. The evidence the Petitioner presents on 
appeal continues to demonstrate the 2019 competition was regional in nature, and they have not 
explained or offered evidence demonstrating this accolade is nationally or internationally recognized. 
Additionally, the record lacks the criteria this regional entity relied upon to select the winners of this 
accolade. Based on the lack of relevant evidence, the Petitioner also has not demonstrated this award 
was for excellence in the field, and we agree with the Director that she has not satisfied this criterion's 
requirements. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims her membership of the ________________ 
and the The Director identified her claims associated 
with the but did not directly name any other entity. Regarding the other claimed associations, the 
3 
Director noted an absence of primary evidence such as bylaws or constitutions to establish each 
entity's membership requirements, and they ultimately determined that the evidence did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. 
As it relates to the the Director evaluated this entity's constitution and found it does not reflect 
that outstanding achievements are required as an essential condition of membership for individual 
members. On appeal, the petitioner states this association is a confederation of journalists' trade 
unions. She claims the LJ is the world's largest organization of journalists, and she recounts the 
entity's history. However, she does not address the regulatory requirement that this association require 
outstanding achievements of its members by those recognized as national or international experts in 
the field. As a result, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the will serve to satisfy this criterion's 
requirements. 
For the _______________ the Petitioner's appeal mentions a letter from the 
president of this association that she claims she offered in her response to the Director's request for 
evidence. We reviewed the entire record and found no such letter, and the only material from the 
president was offered with the initial petition submission in which a document he signed certifies her 
membership in this entity. The record lacks support for this association to meet this regulation's 
requirements. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The Director only considered scholarly material as it relates to the academic arena and determined that 
she did not meet the requirements of this criterion. However, those outside of academia may also 
qualify under this criterion. In non-academic arenas, a scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's decision and she offers two bases. First, she presented 
a book she authored relating to television and film production. However, she does not offer any 
additional arguments for this evidence for the prospect that it was written for learned persons in her 
field. 
Second, she claims her service as a special guest at a seminar in which she was one of five presenters 
where she discussed her experience and knowledge as a director and producer in television and film. 
Many professional fields regularly hold conferences and symposia to present new work, discuss new 
findings, and network with other professionals. Professional associations, businesses, educational 
institutions, and government agencies promote and sponsor these conferences. Here, the Petitioner 
does not posit that presenting orally at a conference equates to authorship of a scholarly article, nor 
does she establish that such a conference amounts to a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media. The record lacks proof that her work was introduced at the conference and was published 
4 
in any conference proceedings. We therefore determine that the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
While the Petitioner argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to 
performing in a leading or critical role at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), it is unnecessary for us to reach a 
decision on this additional ground because she cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding 
it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the 
appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22668216 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 3, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor of engineering, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish, 
as required, that the Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for the 
classification. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon de novo 
review, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter to the Director for the entry 
of a new decision. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they 
must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily 
apply to their occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner did not indicate or establish that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he was required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. Background and procedural history 
The Petitioner asserted that the Beneficiary had sustained national and international acclaim in the 
field of mechanical, aeronautical, and aerospace engineering, stating that he met eight of the ten 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner contended that he had received a 
lesser national or international award for excellence, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
pointing to his receipt of a military duty medal from the President of Egypt in 2002 for his 
approximately 26 years of service as a high-level military officer acting in mechanical, aeronautical, 
and aerospace engineering academic and research and development positions with the Egyptian 
military. Further, the Petitioner stated that he had demonstrated his membership in associations 
requiring outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the discipline or field as set forth by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). The Petitioner emphasized 
his membership in the Egyptian I since 1972, the American Institute of I since 1998, and the !Institute beginning 
in 2009. 
The Petitioner further asserted that several of his research papers had been published in mechanical, 
aeronautical, and aerospace engineering scholarly journals thereby meeting the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and that he had participated as a judge of the work of others, consistent 
with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), based on his participation as a judge of doctoral dissertations and his 
2 
performance of peer review for his professor colleagues. The Petitioner also contended that he had 
made original contributions of major significance as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). The 
Petitioner emphasized his 28 published scientific research papers, asserted breakthroughs in aerospace 
guidance and control (including Euler parameters), design and development of highly technical 
defense systems and aerospace vehicles while working with the Egyptian military, creation of 
mechanical engineering undergraduate and graduate programs for the Egyptian 
formulation of engineering curriculum as a professor at College in Canada, and supervision of 
doctoral and master of science theses leading to publications and citations. 
In addition, the Petitioner pointed to his participation in college open houses while working as a 
professor and the inclusion of some of his scholarly research papers at industry conferences. The 
Petitioner stated that this represented the display of his work at artistic exhibitions or showcases as set 
forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The Petitioner also contended that he played a leading a critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
noting his former leadership roles at the Egyptian strategic defense center from 
1986 to 1995, the I Company from 1983 to 1992, and his formation of 
curriculum at the School of Aviation and Flight Technology atl College in Canada from 2005 
to the present. Lastly, the Petitioner indicated that he that he commanded a high salary in relation to 
others in his field, as reflected at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), while working as a professor at I I 
College. 
In denying the petition, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner met the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), requiring the authorship of scholarly articles, and confirmed that he had 
judged the work of others, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). However, the Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not sufficiently establish that he met any of the other six asserted 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not sufficiently analyze his assertions 
and the submitted evidence with respect to each criterion. 
B. Criteria adopted and affirmed 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish: 1) his membership in associations 
requiring outstanding achievements of their members as judged by recognized national or international 
experts in the discipline or field as set forth by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii); 2) that his work was 
displayed at artistic exhibitions or showcases as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii); 3) that he 
made original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major 
significance in the field consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); or 4) that he commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in the field as reflected at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Upon review, since 
the Petitioner does not specifically articulate on appeal why the Director's conclusions with respect to 
these four criteria were incorrect, we will adopt and affirm the Director's conclusions. See Matter of 
Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1996) ("[W]e 
join eight of our sister circuits in ruling that the Board [ oflmmigration Appeals] need not write at length 
merely to repeat the IJ' s [Immigration Judge's] findings of fact and his reasons for denying the requested 
relief, but, rather, having given individualized consideration to a particular case, may simply state that it 
affirms the IJ's decision for the reasons set forth in that decision."). 
C. Criteria remanded for further analysis 
3 
However, the Director did not sufficiently analyze two of the other claimed regulatory criteria. For 
instance, with respect to whether the Petitioner received lesser national or international awards for 
excellence, consistent with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), the Director only stated that "the submitted 
evidence is insufficient." The Director did not specifically analyze and discuss the evidence provided 
by the Petitioner, including his assertion that a military duty medal he received from the President of 
Egypt in 2002 met this regulatory criterion. 
The Director also did not adequately address whether the Petitioner demonstrated that he had 
performed in a leading or critical role for a distinguished organization consistent with 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The Director only indicated with respect to this criterion that the "letters 
do not explain how the [Petitioner's] accomplishments went beyond a department or project or the 
organization or establishment and impacted the organization or establishment as a whole." However, 
this analysis appears to ignore the Petitioner's assertions with respect to this criterion. For instance, 
the Petitioner pointed to his former leadership roles at the Egyptian strategic 
defense center, thel I Company, and his formation of curriculum at the School 
of Aviation and Flight Technology at I I College in Canada. The Director's decision lacks 
specific discussion of these statements and the supporting evidence meant to support his assertions 
with respect to this criterion. 
Therefore, we agree with the Petitioner's contention that the Director did not sufficiently consider all 
the evidence submitted in support of two criterion, as discussed above. An officer must fully explain 
the reasons for denying a visa petition to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to contest the decision 
and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i); see 
also Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the 
reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the 
determination on appeal). 
D. Final Merits Determination 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. For the reasons discussed above, 
the Director shall issue a new decision that evaluates the assertions and evidence submitted in support 
of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). If after review the Director 
determines that the Petitioner satisfies at least one of these criteria, thereby demonstrating he met three, 
the decision should include an analysis of the totality of the record evaluating whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
whether the record demonstrates that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2),(3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration . 
Services 
MATTER OF A-O-R-D-L-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DA TE: FEB. 4, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a former professor at Brown Mackie College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in education.1 See Immigration and Nationality Act· (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can den1onstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized iii their field through extensive 
·documentation .. 
. The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and two subsequent motions in 
2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3),. which require documentation of a one-time 
achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 2014, we upheld the Director's 2013 decision, and subsequently reaffirmed 
our findings in eight motion decisions between 2014 and 2018.2 
The matter is now before us on motion for the ninth time. The Petitioner has filed combined 
motions to reconsider and reopen, asserting that we should approve his petition because "the 
favorable factors in the case outweighed the unfavorable factors." He further alleges that he has 
shown he satisfies at least three of the ten regulatory criteria, because in addition to having 
. previously established the judging and scholarly articles criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and 
(vi), he claims that he has demonstrated his "receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor," under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Upon review, we will deny the combined motions to reconsider and reopen.3 
1 On page 3 of his petition, the Petitioner indicated that upon the approval of the petition, he would work as a "professor 
of li;iw and economics" in the United States. 
2 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter ofA-O-R-D-l-, ID# 1083126 (AAO Mar. 5, 2018). 
3 With his motion, the Petitioner asserts that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has failed to adjudicate 
five Forms 1-2908 filed between 2012 and 2017. Review of USCIS records shows that all of the receipt numbers 
provided have been adjudicated, either by the AAO or the Director. 
Matter of A-O-R-D-L-
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
· is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements oJ a motion to reconsider are 
located at 8 C.F.R. § I 03.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANAL YSis· 
A. Motion to Reconsider · · 
. . . 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our last decision, because we concluded that his 
"Innovare Award" and "Honor to Accounting Merit" did not qualify as nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence, under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). He further claims that 
he has received three nationally recognized awards that also satisfy the criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we erred in our previous decision. In his. initial filing in 
support' of his petition, the Petitioner submitted a 200 I . c~rtificate, indicating that he received a 
"Diploma of Merit" for "relevant and good professional services rendered to the accounting 
profession and society." As discussed in our 2014. decision dismissing the appeal, as well as in our 
subsequent motion decision,4 the Petitioner has not submitted credible and sufficient evidence 
confirming that this certificate, issued by a regional authority, constitutes either a nationally or 
internationaUy recognized prize or award in the field of education ... 
In addition, while the Director concluded in his 2012 decision that the Petitioner's "Innovare 
Award" qualified as a nationally rec~gnized award, the record does n·ot support this finding. A 2011 
certificate indicates that the Petitioner "won the Prize Innovare 2005 in the category Single Judge by 
practicing Reconciliation of First Degree." Although the record includes a photograph, purportedly 
depicting his attendance at the award ceremony, and online p_rintouts about the award jssuing entity -
Institute Innovare -as well as its Inno.vare International Awards, the Petitioner has not shown that 
his 2005 award is nationally or internationally recognized. As discussed in our 2014 decision 
dismissing the appeal, as well as in our subsequent motion decisions, the Petitioner has not 
established that his 2005 award was an Innovare International Award, which, according to 
documents in the record, did not exist before 20 I 0. Additionally, the record lacks sufficient 
evidence, such as materials from publications or news outlets with a national or international 
readership or viewership base, confirming· that the Petitioner's "Prize Innovare 2005" enjoys 
recognition on a national or international level in the field of education. 
4 Specifically, in our 2014 and 2015 motion decisions, we again explained the bases upon which we concluded thatthe 
"Diploma of Merits," which the Petitioner references as "Honor to Accounting Merit," does not m·eet-the criterion under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) .. 
2. 
Matter of A-O-R-D-L-
Moreover, as discussed in our 2014 decision, the Petitioner did not initially assert on appeal that his 
other awards and prizes, which he now claims to be nationally recognized, were qualifying under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Furthermore, as we explained in our 2014 decision, the record shows that 
these accolades are local or regional in scope, and are not recognized nationally or internationally. 
The Petitioner's conclusory statements that he satisfies the "nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards" criterion under 8 C.F.R. §. 204.5(h)(3 )(i) and his repeating of arguments he 
previously made in support of appeal and motions do not meet the requirements for a motion to 
reconsider the matter. He has not established that our most recent decision, dated March 2018, was 
based on an incorrect application of law or policy or that it was incorrect based on the evidence in 
the record of proceedings atthe time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). We will therefore 
deny his motion to reconsider the matter. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen the matter. As noted, a motion to reopen 
must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). On 
motion, the Petitioner has not presented either new facts or new evidence in support of his eligibility 
for the classification. As such, he has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider does not demonstrate that our previous decision was based on 
an incorrect application of law or policy, or was incorrect based on the· evidence in the record at the 
time. In addition, he has not provided documentation in support of his motion to reopen or 
established eligibility for the classification. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
Cite as Matter of A-O-R-D-L-, ID# 1574437 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019) 
3 Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF E-S- DATE: FEB. 4, 2019 
APPEAL _OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a chief technology officer,_ seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality · Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
, § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas availabi'e t6 those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive docurnentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a briet: arguing that he meets at least three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been -demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been' recognized in the ·field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien _ seeks to enter the United siates to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial· evidence 
.
Matter of E-S-
requirements. First, a _pet1t10ner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provi~e documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C_.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
. material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R?jal v. USC!S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that trye "truth is to be 
determined not _by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a chief technology officer at located in Texas. Because 
he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In 
denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and leading or _critical role under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that USCIS found that he met the original contributions criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) in a previous filing.1 Thus, he contends that he satisfied three criteria over 
the course of two petition filings. However, each extraordinary ability petition is reviewed on its 
own merits, and we are not bound by decisions of a service center or district director. See La. 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). ·Moreover, 
we have review,ed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner fulfills the requirements of at least three criteria. 
1 See USC IS decision dated, November 3, 20 I 7, for ., 
where the Director determined that the Petitioner 
satisfied the original contributions and leading or critical role criteria. 
2 
.
\... 
Matter of E-S-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in prqfessional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author qf the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The record contains screenshots, such as hufiingtonpost.com, pcadvisor.co.uk, mashable.com, and 
the verge.com, reporting on the release of a computer application, The evidence, 
however, does not reflect published material about the Petitioner.2 In fact, the Petitioner is not 
mentioned in any of the material. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Accordingly, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence qf the alien's participation. either individually or on a panel, as a judge qfthe work qf 
others in the same or an allied.field qfspecificationfhr which classification is sought. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence showing that he served as a judge for a database module add-on 
competition. As such, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence qf the. alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major signfficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v),-.a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence relating to his development of three 
computer applications, websites, and software: 
As previously mentioned relating to the record contains screenshots reporting on the 
new application, such as theverge.com, mashable.corn, and pcadvisor.co.uk. However, the 
screenshots do not reflect that has significantly impacted the field in a major way 
rather than announcing the availability of a new application. Moreover, the Petitioner submitted 
screenshots from time.com and forbes.com listing as one of the 
and ________ as well as receiving third place at the 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Suhmilled with Certain Form /-/40 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual(AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADI /-/4 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
.
Matter of E-S-
Although received initial accolades for its ingenuity and originality, 
the record does not indicate that it garnered honors based on its recognition by the field as being 
greatly influential. The Petitioner, for example, did not show the influence of __ smce 
its introduction. In addition, the Petitioner offered recommendation letters that explained the 
purpose of the application and described his role in its development but do not demonstrate how it is 
considered to have been of major significance in the field.3 For instance, the authors generally 
indicate that it "reach[ es] more than 2.5M users worldwide" Without explaining the meaning of such 
usage numbers and how it establishe~ the impact of the application in the field. 
Similarly, regarding , the recommendation letters confirm his work on the website without 
showing its impact of influence in the field. For example, , co-founder of 
stated that the Petitioner's "exceptional abilit_ies were a key driver in making happen and 
leading to its ultimate acquisition and successful integration within other web assets." 
Although the record indicates that purchased neither nor the Petitioner, 
demonstrated how such acquisition shows that is considered to be a contribution of major 
significance to the greater field.4 Moreover, director of product at indicated 
that the Petitioner "spearheaded the efforts to increase the scale in which the website worked as more 
and more users of [sic] different on line properties came to the site." While 
briefly discussed the Petitioner's post~acquisition work, he did not establish how his contributions 
greatly impacted the overall field outside of · 
Likewise, as it pertains to the Petitioner offered a letter from , chief 
executive officer of who stated' that the Petitioner led the development of, the software 
product at and "was one of the most scalable products in the company allowing to serve 
thousands of customers from a single server." Here, commented on importance of the 
software to ___ rather than showing the impact or influence to the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value.5 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may 
form the basis for meeting this criterion.6 Moreover, USClS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The U.S. Att'yGen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
3 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra; at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
· a finding that a ballroom dancer had no_t met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
· whole). . 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
6 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that· letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain ho_w an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance iri the field). 
4 
.
Matter of E-S-
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reJJutation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii): 
Although the Director concluded that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, the record does not reflect 
that he performed in leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. 7 The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion 
based· on his roles for and Although we agree that the 
Petitioner's roles were leading or critical, he did not establish that the organizations enjoy 
distinguished reputations.8 The record contains screenshots relating to application 
release and acquisition of as well as 2015 tax documentation and 
acquisition agreement. The Petitioner, however, did not show how the evidence 
demonstrates the eminent reputations for any of these organizations. 
Because the Petitioner did not meet his burden of establish that he performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishment that have a distinguished reputation, we withdraw the 
Director's decision for this criterion. · 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant vis.a petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and c_ase law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of.Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), a_ff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855 at *2. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has .. not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the 'type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Ntvertheless, we advise 
7 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1; supra, at I 0. 
8 Id. at I 0-11 (defining Merrion-Webst er's Dictiona,y definition of "distinguished" as marked by eminence , distinction, 
or excellence). 
Matter of E-S-
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that .it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
. "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustaineq national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreo·ver, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matten~[ E-S-, ID# 1973171 (AAO Feb. 4,2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-Y-S-. Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a theater professor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those. who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that she meets at 
least three of the criteria: 
Upon de nova review, ,we will dismiss th~ appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been . recognized 111 the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii)' the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work 111 the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
,, 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204:5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i}- (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international.acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very_top of the ~eld of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
( 
Visinscaia v. Beers,4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance,' probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a theatrical professor at the in 
Egypt. As the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Director found that· the Petitioner met the following two criteria: judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects thatthe 
Petitioner judged two theatrical festivals and authored a scholarly publication. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director's decision for these two criteria. In addition, the record demonstrates that the 
Petitioner has directed theatrical performances at festivals thereby fulfilling the artistic display 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Therefore, the Petitioner has established that she satisfies 
at least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the 
final merits determination below. ' 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence , we will evaluate whether she has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national or international acclaim 
and that she is one of the small. percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor , and that her 
2 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
· achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if her successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown her eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner received a bachelor of arts degree in accounting from 
in 1995; a bachelor of arts degree and a diploma of post graduate studies in acting and 
directing from the___ == in 1999 and 2003, respectively; and a doctor of 
philosophy from in 2013. According to her curriculum vitae, the 
Petitioner was a teaching assistant at from 2003 -2013. In addition, the Petitioner held various 
positions at , from 2009 -2013, such as Arabic instructor, graduate administrative associate, 
. video editing assistant, and graduate research assistant. Most recently, the Petitioner maintained that 
she was "The Head" of in Egypt from November 2014 -
June 2015, and has been a theatrical professor at since Fall 2013.1 As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner judged others within her field, authored a scholarly publication, and displayed her work at 
artistic exhibitions. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her achievements are reflective 
of a "career of acclaimed work in .the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding her service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of her experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian. 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that she served as a judge at the in December 2013 and 
at the in May 2016. However, the Petitioner did not establish that 
her two judging instances place her among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). She did not show, for example, how her judging experience compares to 
others at the top of the field. 
in addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her two judging occurrences in 2013 and 2016 
contribute to a finding that she has a "career of acclaimed work in the field". as contemplated by 
Congress or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 
at 59 and section 203(b )( f)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show, for instance, that she 
garnered wide attention from the field based on her work as a festival judge. Without evidence that 
sets her apart from others in her field, such as evidence that ·she served as a judge of acclaimed 
individuals or of prestigious national or international competitions rather than aspiring students or 
amateurs , she did not demonstrate that she "is one of that small percentage who [ha:s] risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F:R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner last .entered the Unite.d Sta.res as a visitor on June 21, 2016. The Petitioner has 
not indicated or documented any employment since her arrival in the United States. 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
Likewise, publication of scholarly work does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 
Here, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that she authored one book, 
, in 2013. The Petitioner, however, has not 
demonstrated that this publication record is consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." 
H.R. Rep. No. at 59. In addition, the commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for 
aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present 
more extensive documentation than that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 
30704 (July 5, 1991 ). She has not shown that her authorship of one scholarly publication is 
reflective of being among the small percentage at the very top of her field or demonstrates the 
required sustained national or international acclaim for this highly restrictive classification. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of her book can be an indicator to 
determine the .impact and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether .such influence 
has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article or book authored by 
a petitioner may provide solid evidence that her work has been recognized and that others in her 
field have been influenced by her work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian. 596 F. 3d at 1122. Although the Petitioner submitted screenshots 
from websites offering the availability to purchase the book, such as amazon.com, ebay.com, and 
thriftbooks.com, she did not show that the field has recognized her book as being highly influential 
or as a widely used, standard source. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that her book attracted 
a level of interest in her field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner, for example, did not provide evidence of the 
citation of her book by others or sales figures to show that .her work is recognized as being at the t9p 
of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). r 
Regarding the display of her work, the Petitioner indicated that she directed four plays, such as 
acted in six plays and three television shows, and edited three films. 
As it is expected that directors and actresses would exhibit their artistic work in front of audiences, 
we will evaluate the extent to which the display of her work is reflective of acclaim consistent with 
this classification. While the Petitioner presented evidence showing her participation as a director 
and actress, she did not demonstrate, for example, that her work brought wide praise from .critics, 
drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or were responsible for the success or standing of the 
events.2 The Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish her performances or work from others in her 
field or show that it reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. I 01-723 at 59. 
Beyond the three. criteria that the Petitioner satisfied; we· consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence . demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
2 Although the Petitioner has experience in the theatrical field, she did not claim, nor does the record reflect, commercial 
successes under the regul,ation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
4 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has su~tained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
. . 
As it relates to her awards, the Petitioner provided certificates acknowledging her service and 
participation, as well as financial aid grants to attend higher education. For example, the Petitioner 
submitted an certificate "for Outstanding Contribution and Service in recognition of [her] 
contributions and dedication to the Department of Theatre's Video Archives," a letter from the 
indicating that she received "an Egyptian government scholarship for up to 4 
year[s] in the USA to obtain her Ph.D. degree," and a certificate from the 
for "her effort and participation in the ."3 However, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate that the field recognizes any of these . as prizes or awards for 
excellence. Here, the record does not reflect that she received prestigious awards against acclaimed 
competition throughout her field or was judged by accomplished directors and actors. 
The Petitioner also claims membership with the However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that her membership requires outstanding achievements , as judged by 
recognized national or international experts.4 Further, as she has not shown, for example, that she is 
a member of associations that limit membership to artists with renowned endeavors, her membership 
'-- evidence does not contribute to a finding that she has sustained national or international acclaim. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of t~e Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that she offered four articles reflecting published material about . 
her in major media. While two articles mention the Petitioner as the head 
of they are about the art center. The other two articles 
·reflect published !Tiaterial about her. However , she did not establish that any of the articles were 
published in major media.5 Moreover , the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the articles are 
consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, she did not show that her limited 
press coverage is indicative of a level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage 
who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F .R. § 204.S(h )(2). 
Further, with respect to her c;ontributions to the field, the Petitioner states that she submitted letters 
to show that her contributions "are original, unique and will bring great benefit to the United States 
_ of America." The letters, however, make general asse1tions repeating the statute and regulations 
without providing spe•cific information explaining how her work has greatly impacted the overall 
field. For instance, ________ claimed that the Petitioner "delivered solid 
I 
3 While we discuss a sampling of her awards, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
4 According to the evidence submitted by the Petitioner, full membership requires individuals to have· received a 
doctorate re_lated to Middle East studies, have taught Middle East studies, or who have made a scholarly contribution to 
Middle East studies. 
5 The Petitioner provides screenshots from Wikipedia , an online, open source; collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly 
states it cannot guarantee the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer. Wikipedia (January 31, 2019), 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer ; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F."3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
5 
.
Matter of A-Y-S-
' performances that highlighted her diverse talents" and "[h ]er research and abilities will continue to 
substantially benefit the United States:"6 did not show how the Petitioner's 
diverse talents have impacted the field or how her research has already benefited the field. 
Repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not satisfy the petitioner's burden of proof. 
Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 
1990); Avyr Associates. Inc. v. Meissner, 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). Here, the letters do not 
\ ' 
provide sufficient information and explanation, nor does the record include sufficient corroborating 
evidence, to show that the Petitioner is viewed by the overall field, rather than by a solicited few, as 
being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
Moreover, as discussed above, the Petitioner served as "The Head" of However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that enjoys a distinguished reputation. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not establish that her work at this organization has been recognized by the field as being 
significantly important or viewed as unusually influential. The submitted documentation, for 
instance, does not reflect th~t the Petitioner has somehow impacted the field through her work at this 
establishment demonstrating attention at a level commensurate with those at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). · 
The record as a wh()le, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Matter of Price; 20 l&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is 
no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that she has sustained national or international acclaim _and is among the small 
percentage at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2).7 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons dlscussed above, the Petitioner has not established her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
· Cite as Matter of A-Y-S-, ID# 1972670 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019) 
6 Although we reference a sample letter, we have reviewed and considered each one in the record. 
7 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated her extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether she intends to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )( I )(A)(ii). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF A-S-C-J-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrat.ive Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 4, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a tango dancer and teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A); 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form J-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. , 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief, arguing that he meets at least three of the criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
asclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F .. R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
V 
Matter of A-S-C-J-
requirements .. F~rst, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is; a major, 
internationally recognized award). If ;that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must. provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). · 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing,a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of ~riteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed and taught at various venues around the world, including the United 
States. As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of _the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
1he Director found that the Pet.itioner met the following two criteria: published material under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The record contains four 
qualifying articles about the Petitioner in major media. In addition, the record reflects that the 
Petitioner judged a tango competition. Accordingly, we agree with the Director's decision for these 
two criteria. In addition, although the Petitioner never claimed eligibility for this criterion, the 
record shows that the Petitioner has danced and performed at exhibitions thereby satisfying the 
artistic display criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). Therefore, the Petitioner has established 
that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria, and we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in 
the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requis,ite. initial .evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim 
and that he is one of the small percentage at· the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
2 
.
Matter of A-S-C-J-
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field 
of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner submitted documentary evidence reflecting his involvement with tango dance for over 
. 25 years. For instance, he performed as part of the 
and === In addition, he danced in the film, and in 
productions such as and Most recently, he participated in 
Further, the Petitioner runs the and has provided instruction at 
· dance schools, such as , and to dance students. As mentioned above, the 
Petitioner had four qualifying articles published about him in major media, judged a competition, 
and performed at various venues. The record, however, does not demonstrate that his achievements 
are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Regarding published· material about him, the Petitioner offered four qualifying articles in major 
media. S,pecifically, the Petitioner presented three articles from Clarin (2002, 2004, and 2007) and 
one article from La Nacion (2007). While the Petitioner provided other documents, such as 
I 
playbills, posters, advertisements, they do not reflect published material about him in professional or 
major trade publications or other media. For instance, he submitted a page from the 
section of the New York Times announcing a tango show at the 
rather than an article from the publication discussing him and his 
work. In addition, the Petitioner's presented approximately 10 other articles about him but did not 
submit supporting evidence establishing that publications they appeared in , such as the Woodstock 
Times and Daily Freeman .. are considered professional or major trade publications or other major 
media.' Instead, the Petitioner's translated material made claims relating to the history and status of 
the publication. For example, a translation for an article from Cronica asserted that "[i]t is one of 
the largest circulated newspapers in the country" and "[i]n 2006 they had a daily circulation of 
58,432 copies." Although the Petitioner provided certified translations, the record does not reflect 
that the foreign language articles contained the translator's assertions. 2 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that four articles published over 10 
years ago are consistent with the. sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly 
· restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. In addition, the commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )( I )(A)(i) of the Act provide that the "intent of 
1 We note that the majority of his evidence did ~ot contain the required title, date, or author of the material. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation . 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the 
· translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
3 
.
Matter of A-S-C-J-
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" 
for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). Even considering the totality of 
the other evidence and articles, the Petitioner has not shown that his press coverage is indicative of a 
level of success consistent with being among "that small percentage who [has] risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it pertains to his service as a judge of others, an evaluation of the significance of his experience is 
appropriate to determine if such evidence is indicative of the extraordinary ability required for this 
highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian. 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. The Petitioner provided 
evidence showing that he served as a judge at the 
in 2017 and 2018, in 2016, and 
in 2011. However, the Petitioner did not establish that his judging 
instances places him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). He did not show, for example, how his judging experience compares to others at the 
top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his recent judging occurrences contribute to a 
finding that he has a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as conternplated by Congress or 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show, for instance, that he garnered wide 
attention from the field based on his work as a tango judge. 
As discussed relating to the artistic display of his work, the Petitioner has performed in a movie, on 
Broadway in New York, New York, and at area festivals. In addition to the performances mentioned 
above, the record indicates that he participated in musicals, such and 
Further, the Petitioner danced in a private tango show with the _ as 
well with orchestras and operas. As it is expected that a tango dancer, such as the Petitioner, would 
exhibit his artistic work in front of audiences, we will evaluate the extent to which the display of his 
work is reflective of acclaim consistent with this classification: While the Petitioner presented 
evidence showing a wicie range of experience from-movies, musicals, shows, and concerts, he did 
not demonstrate, for example, that his work brought wide praise from critics, drew notable crowds, 
raised attendance, or was responsible for the success cir standing of the events.3 The Petitioner's 
evidence does not distinguish his performances or work from others in his field or show that it 
reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723 at 59. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidenc:e demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria nor contributes to an overall finding that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
' Although the Petitioner has experience a performing artist, he did not claim, nor does the record reflect, commercial 
successes under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
4 
.
Matter of A-S-C-J-
With respect to his contributions to the field, the record contains numerous recommendation letters 
that praise his talents and skills as a tango dancer. For example, a salsa performer 
and instructor, stated that the Petitioner is "one of the world's great living Argentine. Tango 
performers" and "has an innate talent as a dancer."4 While the authors admire the Petitioner, they do 
not show that he has significantly influenced the field placing him in "that small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, although the 
letters credit the Petitioner for working with and teaching other tango dancers, they do not establish 
that he has made contributions that have been of major significance to the greater field. For 
instance, claimed that the Petitioner's "impact of [his] own skills as a professional 
tango dancer really stands out" and "has had a profound influence on [his] personal development as 
a tango professional." Here, the Petitioner did not establish how his impact on , or any 
of his other students, is recognized by the overall field as having been majorly significant consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive 
classification. See section 203(b )( I )(A) of the Act. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claimed that his roles as a cast n~ember in various productions mentioned 
above as evidence of his leading or critical roles for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how productions and shows 
qualify as "organizations or establishments." Regardless, the Petitioner did not establish that his 
roles have been recognized by the field as being significantly important or viewed as notably 
influential. The submitted documentation, for instance, does not reflect that the Petitioner has 
somehow impacted the field through his work demonstrating attention at a level commensurate with 
those at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(11)(2). In addition, the 
Petitioner's evidence does riot distinguish his performances or work from others in his field or show 
that it reflects a "career of acclaimed work in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. 
The record as a: whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the Petitioner need not establish that there is 
no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to 
demonstrate that , he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small 
percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2).5 
4 Although we cite to a sample of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he intends to continue working in the·area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). 
5 
Matter of A-S-C-J-
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 statu~, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See. e.g.. Q Data Consulting. Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of.Justice, 48 F. Stipp. 2d 22 (O.O.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co .. 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the P_etitioner has not established his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. · 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of A-S-C-.J-, ID# 1982273 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6828587 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 4, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an acrobatic gymnastics coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only 
one of the ten initial evidentiary criterion for this classification, of which he must satisfy at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been employed as a head coach a~ .... -----:,r-;=======,---'I in Louisiana since 2015 
and previously worked as an acrobatic gymnastics coach inl I from 2001 until 2014. He 
completed his Bachelor of Sports and Master of Sports degrees at the~---------~ 
Academy inl !with concentrations in acrobatics coaching and sports psychology. He also 
earned professional qualification certificates in physical education, sports management, and sports 
journalism. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not claim or submit evidence 
of a qualifying one-time achievement and that he met only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he presented evidence that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award, and, in the alternative, that he meets five additional 
alternate criteria. 
A. Major, Internationally Recognized Award 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains 
that he demonstrated the receipt of a major, internationally recognized award "as his coaching led 
multiple athletes to win World Championships, European Championships, and World Cup medals." 
He also provides evidence demonstrating that the world championship is the highest level of 
competition in the sport of acrobatic gymnastics, which is not yet included in the summer Olympic 
Games. 
The Petitioner maintains that "he should be evaluated under the comparable evidence standard based 
on the achievements of the athletes he has coached." The regulatory provision at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(4) provides petitioners the opportunity to submit comparable evidence to establish a 
petitioner's eligibility, if it is determined that the standards described in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. However, there is no comparable evidence for the 
2 
one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. 1 Therefore, the Petitioner cannot 
satisfy the requirements of this regulation by submitting evidence of awards won by athletes that he 
has coached and claiming that such evidence is comparable. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated a qualifying one-time achievement pursuant 
to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion relating to judging the work of others in his 
field at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner provided evidence establishing that he currently 
holds judging credentials issued by the International Gymnastics Federation (FIG) and has participated 
as a judge at acrobatic gymnastics competitions since 2009. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that this criterion was satisfied. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the criteria related to lesser nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, memberships in associations requiring outstanding achievements, 
published materials about him and his work in the field, leading or critical roles in organizations or 
establishments with distinguished reputations, and high salary or other remuneration. After reviewing 
all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least 
three of the initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner provided evidence that he coached athletes inl I who received medals at 
international acrobatic gymnastics events such as the European Championships, World Cup and World 
Age Group Championships, while athletes he has coached in the United States earned medals at the I I in 2015 and in subsequent years. 
We acknowledge that some of these awards qualify as nationally or internationally recognized awards 
in the sport of acrobatic gymnastics. However, as noted by the Director, in order to satisfy the plain 
language of the regulation, the Petitioner must established that he himself was the recipient of 
nationally or internationally recognized awards; awards received by athletes that he coached do not 
satisfy this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner refers to one of our non-precedent decisions in support of his claim that "a 
coach can rely on comparable evidence if it can establish that he 'has coached athletes who have 
received nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence in the sport while under (his) 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
instruction."' The referenced decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind 
USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing 
law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the 
evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and applicable law and policy. We also note 
that the cited non-precedent decision involved a petitioner seeking to classify a beneficiary as an 0-1 
nonimmigrant and was therefore not adjudicated based on the same law and policy applicable to this 
immigrant petition. 
The Petitioner claims that he has also received nationally recognized awards for coaching that qualify 
under this criterion. He provides evidence that he was recognized by USA Gymnastics as the 2018 I !Coach of the Year. However, he filed this petition in December 
2015. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
Therefore, he cannot establish his eligibility under this criterion based on an award he received in 
2018, even ifwe were to determine that it otherwise satisfies all elements of this evidentiary criterion. 
In addition to the above-referenced coaTing award, the Petitioner maintains that he has received multiple 
national "Coach of the Year" awards in In support of this claim, the Petitioner submits a letter 
froml !General Secretary ofthel l 
who states that "[h]e was awarded many times as the Coach of the Year by the I I between 2008-
2014." This letter was accompanied by photographs of five award plaques, including: 2 
• A plaque issued by the Republic of I I Ministry of Youth and Sports, recognizing the 
Petitioner as "Coach for 2013" in acrobatic gymnastics 
• A plaque issued by the ~ recognizing the Petitioner as "Coach for 2011" 
• A plaque from the Ministry of Physical Education and Sports, recognizing the Petitioner as 
"Acrobatic Gymnastics Coach for 2011" 
• A plaque from thel I recognizing the Petitioner for "Outstanding Achievements" in 2009 
The Petitioner asserts that "[t]hese coaching awards arel uneguyocally the national level awards as 
the: were awarded by the I I government and the -the governing body of the sport in I I,, 
In determining whether a petitioner has received a qualifying nationally recognized award, relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 3 Here, while the Petitioner indicates that four of 
the awards submitted were issued by I O I national sports associations or federations, the 
evidence submitted is insufficient to establish that any of these are awards are nationally recognized 
awards for excellence in the Petitioner's field. The Petitioner did not provide any background 
information from the awarding entities regarding the purpose of the awards or the criteria used to grant 
2 The record reflects that the fifth plaque was awarded by~--.----..., which was the Petitioner's employer prior 
to his relocation to the United States. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 6. 
4 
them, the number of recipients, or the national significance of the awards. The fact that several of the 
awards were issued by a national-level entity does not establish that the award itself is a nationally­
recognized prize as required by the plain language of the regulation. 
Finally, the Director acknowledged that the Petitioner submitted testimonials from the ~I-~ 
indicating that he had received awards as a competitive athlete in acrobatic gymnastics, but 
emphasized that he did not submit supporting evidence documenting the awards. 4 We agree with the 
Director's determination that the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented his receipt of nationally I 
recognized awards or prizes as a competitive athlete. The record contains a letter from the 
indicating that the Petitioner, between 1985 and 2001, "has been a multiple champion and a medalist 
from State championships and tournaments in the types of men's pair, mixed pair and men's foursomes 
at different ages." Another letter froml I indicates that the Petitioner won a total of 20 gold and 
silver medals in junior, cadet, youth and adult acrobatic gymnastics events between 1992 and 1998, 
but does not identify the specific competitions where he medaled. The latest letter from I J 
submitted on appeal, indicates that the Petitioner "won many medals from the I IN ational 
Championships and meets" and "was champion in Men's Pair, Mixed Pair and Men's Four." 
These letters do not consistently detail the Petitioner's competitive results, identify the specific events 
in which he competed, and, as noted by the Director, were not accompanied by documentary evidence 
of the awards or medals he received or other independent evidence, such as official event results. In 
addition, we acknowledge that the Petitioner was awarded the title "Master of Sport" in 1998, but the 
record does not contain any additional information regarding the basis for granting this distinction and 
therefore did not establish that it is considered to be a nationally or internationally recognized award 
for excellence in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner has not offered any additional evidence of awards 
and prizes that he received as a competitive athlete on appeal or pursued a claim that he meets this 
criterion based on his athletic achievements. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion based on his professional membership with USA 
Gymnastics and based on his qualification "as a member of the select group of FIG International 
Judges." In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an 
4 We note that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that 
acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider the totality of the evidence as 
establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such that we can conclude that coaching is 
within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
5 
association, and that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national 
or international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.5 
With respect to the Petitioner's USA Gymnastics Professional Membership, the record indicates that 
this membership category is for those participating in USA Gymnastics-sanctioned events as 
competitive coaches, judges, and meet directors. Professional members are required to undergo a 
background check every two years, complete an annual Safe Sport Course, and complete a USA 
Gymnastics Safety Certification every four years. In addition, professional members who coach at 
USA Gymnastics-sanctioned events must complete the UlOO: Fundamental Gymnastics Instruction 
course offered by USA Gymnastics University. Finally, professional members with an acrobatic 
gymnastics designation are required to abide by and be bound by USA Gymnastics Acrobatics 
Gymnastics Rules & Policies, as well as the organization's overall policies and ethical standards. 
The Petitioner maintains that, collectively, these membership requirements establish that a USA 
Gymnastics professional membership is one that requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
However, he does not explain how completing the designated courses and passing a background check 
demonstrates that professional members must demonstrate outstanding achievements. The evidence 
submitted suggests that any applicant for professional membership who complies with these 
requirements and passes the background check, regardless of their achievements in the sport, would 
be granted membership. Also, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that prospective professional 
members' achievements are judged by national or international experts in the sport. 
The Petitioner also provided a copy of the FIG "General Judges' Rules" in support of his claim that 
his Brevet Level 2 judge qualification from FIG satisfies this criterion. According to these rules "[t]he 
FIG is responsible to provide educational courses and a fair examination process to achieve the Brevet 
level of Certification," and "[t]he FIG International Judges' Brevet is issued for the judge's entire 
career." 
The submitted rules indicate that pre-requisites for the FIG Brevet judging credential include: being a 
member of a national gymnastics federation in good standing and affiliated to FIG; holding the 
citizenship of the gymnastics federation they represent; being designated by the national federation to 
participate in the FIG Intercontinental or International Judges' course; having the ability to speak at 
least one FIG language and having a working knowledge of the English language; and paying a fee. 
Persons with national judging experience who meet these requirements are eligible to take the FIG 
International course to qualify for the level 2, 3, or 4 Brevet Category. Level 2 is achieved by obtaining 
"very good" and "good" results on a four-part examination in the judge's discipline following 
completion of the course and is maintained by successfully judging a minimum of three international 
competitions during a cycle. 
The Petitioner maintains that the evidence demonstrates that "FIG requires an outstanding level of 
achievement and expertise to be considered a FIG international judge" and is "merited only by the top 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
6 
judges in the world." We agree that the Petitioner was required to demonstrate his expertise in FIG's 
judging rules in order to pass his Brevet examinations. However, the record does not establish that 
qualifying to take the FIG judging courses requires prospective judges to demonstrate outstanding 
achievements, or that completion of the requisite FIG course and obtaining passing results on the 
course-end examinations is an outstanding achievement in and of itself. Therefore, we find that the 
Petitioner's status as a FIG Brevet category 2 judge does not satisfy this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that "USCIS completely ignored the fact that major I O I sports media published articles 
about [ the Petitioner]." The Petitioner specifically references six articles published in I I 
between 2009 and 2013. 
One article, titled .__----.----r-------------------~ was published by the 
website Sported (Sportal_..__ _ _, The Petitioner provided data from SimilarWeb indicating that 
this website ranks 17th in verall, as well as a screenshot from the website All You Can Read 
indicating that Sportal is the top ranked I I sports website. While it appears that this 
website may qualify as major media in I l the submitted article is not about the Petitioner; it 
was written about the 2011 World Cup in acrobatic gymnastics, which was to be held in Italy shortly 
after the publication of the article. The article states that a four-man team coached by the Petitioner 
would be competing and mentions some of their recent competition results, but the Petitioner is not 
otherwise mentioned in the article. The article also discusses al lmixed pair who would be 
competing in the World Cup event and the performance ofl I athletes in the sport's recent 
European Championships. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory 
criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
(upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Further, we note that 
author of the article is not identified, and the article appears to be an English translation, but is not 
accompanied by a copy of the article in thel I language or the required certification from the 
translator. 6 
The Petitioner also submits a 2013 print newspaper article titled '.__ ___________ ____. 
I I and indicates that the source of the article is 19min.O The article does not identify an author, 
and we note that although the Petitioner provided a translation, the translator indicates that they 
translated only a "fragment of a newspaper article." The translated portion of the article indicates 
that thd I men's four team won the bronze medal in the World Cup tournament and includes 
a quote from the Petitioner, identifying him as the trainer of the medal-winning team. Because the 
article was not folly translated, we cannot determine that the article is about the Petitioner. Further, 
6 Any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(3). 
The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate rrom the foreign language into English. Id. 
7 
the Petitioner did not provide supporting evidence indicating that the print edition of this publication 
qualifies as major media. 7 The submitted Similar Web data for the online version of the newspaper 
indicates that 19min.Oranks 1,161 inl I 
The Petitioner provided a May 2013 online article title~d........., ______________ ___. 
~-------~ ' published on the website Gong. As with the previous article, there is no 
author identified. The article includes one quote from the Petitioner regarding the performance of 
the bronze-medal winning men's team, but we cannot conclude that the article, which has not been 
translated in its entirety, is about the Petitioner, who is mentioned only once. Therefore, while the 
supporting evidence indicates that Gong.Dikely qualifies as major sports media inl I the 
article does not satisfy all elements of this criterion. 
A 2009 print newspaper article from 168 Hours titled.__ _______ __. includes an interview 
with the Petitioner, and identifies the author of the material. However, the Petitioner has not provided 
sufficient evidence to establish that this publication, described as an "informational weekly" 
newspaper is a professional publication, major trade publication or other major media in I I 
The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from the newspaper's website which states that it has a 
circu~,300 copies, but did not provide evidence showing how this circulation compares to 
otherl____Jpublications. 
The Petitioner also submitted a November 2011 online article titled I I I I published by Viasport. The article is about a I I junior team that had 
recently earned a medal in the European Championships in acrobatic gymnastics. It mentions the 
Petitioner as the coach who invited the team members to form a group and includes a quote from him 
praising one of the young gymnasts. The article is not about the Petitioner, does not identify the 
author, and is not accompanied by any evidence that Viasport qualifies a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or other major media inl I 
Finally, the Petitioner submitted an April 2013 online article titled ~--------~ published by TopSport (Topsport.O. T~h_e_a_rt_i_cl_e_d_o_e_s_n_o_t_i_d-en-t-if_y_t_h_e~ 
author, and the translator only provided an English translation of the first two paragraphs of the six­
paragraph article. The Petitioner is mentioned in passing as the coach of the boys' junior team, but 
the article is not about him. Finally, although the Petitioner submitted supporting evidence from 
SimilarWeb and All You Can Read, it does not establish that TopSport, which ranks 15th among I lsports websites, is considered to be a major medium. 
We also note that the Petitioner submitted articles about him and his work that appeared in the Texas 
daily newspapers Kilgore News Herald and Longview News-Journal. However, the Petitioner has 
neither claimed nor provided evidence that these publications qualify as major media in the United 
States. Rather, these appear to be local or regional publications. 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
8 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
To establish eligibility under this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence showing that he has 
earned a high salary or significantly high remuneration in comparison with those performing similar 
services in the field. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering 
a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of 
Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 
968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 
891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of 
other NHL defensemen). 
The Petitioner provided copies of his IRS Forms W-2 indicating that he earned $32,092 in 2015, 8 
$40,667 in 2016, and $42,000 in 2017. As noted, the petition was filed in 2015 and the Petitioner 
must establish his eligibility as of the date of filing. On appeal, the Petitioner submits salary data for 
gymnastics coaches from various sources including Glassdoor, CareerOneStop, and Salary Expert and 
asserts that he has demonstrated that his compensation "is at the higher level of the compensation 
spectrum." 
The supporting evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim. The provided salary data from 
Glassdoor indicates that the national average base pay for a gymnastics coach is $36,251, but it also 
lists a $45,000 average for a "head gymnastics coach" which is the role the Petitioner has filled for his 
employer since 2015. The data provided from CareerOneStop indicates a median salary of $36,180 
for coaches in the Petitioner's geographic area in Louisiana, with coaches with earnings at the 75th 
percentile earning $50,270 and the top 10% of coaches earning at least $162,280. Finally, the data 
submitted from Salary Expert indicates that, in Louisiana, the average salary for a senior level 
gymnastics coach with at least eight years of experience is $42,069. Overall, the information provided 
reflects that the Petitioner's past earnings have been close to the average for a coach in his area and 
with his level of experience. He has not established that he has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record indicates that the Petitioner has previously been granted 0-1 status, a 
classification reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at 
least one 0-1 nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not 
preclude users from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different 
standard -statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after 
users approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 
2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. 
Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the users service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
8 The Petitioner was granted 0-1 status in 2015 and worked for two different employers during that year. As a result, we 
acknowledge that his 2015 W-2 may not reflect a full year of earnings. 
9 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement. 
Further, we find that, although the Petitioner met the judging criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), 
he did not establish that he meets the criteria relating to nationally or internationally recognized 
awards, memberships in associations, published materials, or high salary or other remuneration. We 
acknowledge that the Petitioner claims eligibility under one additional criteria on appeal, relating to 
leading or critical roles with organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, as the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this remaining criterion.9 In addition, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the evidence 
demonstrates that the Petitioner is highly educated in his field and that his coaching and judging 
expertise is valued by the acrobatic gymnastics community in both the United States andl I 
However, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4655459 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 4, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at 
least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets two additional criteria and is otherwise qualified for 
the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an actor who has worked in theater, film, television, and commercial projects in the 
United States and in his native South Africa. The record reflects that he completed a two-year 
associate's degree in acting at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts Conservatory in New York. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to published material about him in major trade publications or other major media. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). We agree that the Petitioner meets this criterion based on an article titled I t published in The Star, as the article is about him and his work, and is 
accompanied by evidence establishing that this publication qualifies as major media in South Africa. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to original 
contributions of major significance in his field and performing in a leading or critical role for 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets three criteria. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field.1 For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner has provided more than ten letters from persons in his industry 
who confirm his participation in projects and praise his appearance, character, talent and artistic 
abilities. 2 For instance, I lofl I Artists Agency states that she was impressed by 
the Petitioner's acting footage and "his ethnically ambiguous look." She explains that "his choices, 
skillset and mysterious energy make him an extremely likable and unique actor" and states that his 
"exotic appearance is exactly what the entertainment world craves right now and is so rare to find." I I a talent manager and producer forl I states that the 
Petitioner "has all of the unique and highly original attributes that the business is constantly looking 
for" and states that "the industry needs more international artists from unique locations to bring 
something new and eye catching." Director I I indicates that the Petitioner "possesses a 
range of depth and unique choices that blend well with his primal sense of awareness," praises him for 
being approachable, versatile, and willing to take direction, and notes that "being a native of South 
African [sic] he possesses cultural and rare life experiences that help define and mold his characters." 
Actor and acting coach I I noted that "being raised in a completely different culture and 
environment from birth allows [the Petitioner] to approaching acting from an angle that no American 
can simply based on the fact that he resonates a different energy and history." 
However, the Petitioner did not establish that having a diverse, unique, or special skillset, particular 
cultural background, or exotic look is an original contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself 
Rather, the record must be supported by evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and 
talents to impact the field at a significant level, which he has not shown. Moreover, the letters do not 
comment on the Petitioner's impact beyond the limited projects in which he has performed or 
participated. 3 
Here, the Petitioner's letters did not contain specific, detailed information identifying his original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence his work has had on the overall field. Letters that 
specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its 
impact on subsequent work add value. On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion.4 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, 
Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits four additional letters, asserting that this new evidence will more 
clearly identify his original contributions and "explain how the contributions have influenced the field 
of acting as a whole." In a new letter, I I who previously explained that the Petitioner 
assists him with coaching his clients, states that he has been able to expand his clientele "to a more 
international demographic" and indicates that he has expanded his teaching curriculum "by merging 
2 Although we address a sampling of the letters here, we have reviewed and considered each letter submitted in support of 
the petition. 
3 See Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not 
met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
3 
[the Petitioner's] ideas with my unique style of teaching- this is now known as 'action vocabulary."'5 
I I further explains that he incorporated the Petitioner's "foreign" gestures and body 
language into his teaching curriculum and passed the method on to his students, which has "resulted 
in more of my clients having success in their auditioning process around the world." He opines that 
the Petitioner's contributions to his teaching method have "diversified America's talent pool" by 
giving them the tools to audition for characters who are not American in origin. 
The Petitioner also submits letters from actorsl land I I who both indicate that 
they have received training from the Petitioner in the acting techniques described b~ I I I states that he joined! ts acting classes to learn the "action vocabulary" 
technique, which he describes as "very unique and effective" and he states that he is further ahead in 
his career than peers who have not learned the technique. I I states he "was able to broaden 
[his] character development," that he is now able to portray his characters "in a worldly and 
distinguished manner," and that the training has resulted in "audiences around the world being exposed 
to a new hybrid method which incorporated the professional training of an American acting school 
and the vast experience of a born and raised South African." Finally, I I credits the Petitioner 
with facilitating "the growth of the field of acting both artistically and culturally." 
While I I indicates that the Petitioner has contributed some techniques to his own teaching 
method, his letter does not reflect how this contribution had an impact in the field beyond influencing I I and some of his own students. The record does not reflect that the Petitioner has 
"diversified America's talent pool" to the extent that he has developed techniques that have been 
widely implemented in the acting field or have remarkably impacted the field. Similarly, while both I , I andl I believe their careers have benefited from working with the Petitioner, the 
record does not support a finding that the Petitioner's teachings have majorly influenced the field or 
greatly contributed to its artistic and cultural growth as claimed. 
Finally, the Petitioner has provided a letter from CEO and fourder oti I an 
organization founded to assist I I performing artists i _ I states that 
the Petitioner, as an acting coach, "has directly contributed to the growth of our l ~artists' 
acting development by training them to truthfully portray American characters.:~--~ ;xplains 
that the Petitioner uses "language transitioning" and "physicality transitioning" techniques he learned 
in acting school, along with his personal experience, to develop and hone a "new product" which 
"essentially helped international artists to quickly and effectively adapt to the American film and 
television market." Whilel Is letter suggest that the Petitioner's training and personal 
experience have made him well-equipped to assist his fellow! I actors 
in making the transition to the United States, he does not explain how the Petitioner has made an 
original contribution of major significance that has impacted the broader field of acting. 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
5 I !explains that "action vocabulary" focuses on "using gestures and mannerisms rather than words to portray 
an emotion within the parameters of the scene." 
4 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 6 
With respect to this criterion, the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the letters froml I and 
I kiemonstrate that "the Petitioner's roles as an actor have been leading/critical to the operation 
of organizations or establishments, beyond what most actors can claim." Previously, the Petitioner 
also claimed to meet this criterion based on his work withl I I l and references a previously submitted letter from I la senior lead instructor for 
this establishment. 
.__ ____ _.I has confirmed that the Beneficiary has acted as his assistant acting coach and the record 
contains a screenshot froml I indicating that I brovides services 
as a private coach and mentor. Whil~ !indicates that the Petitioner has contributed to the 
development of acting methods that he t,aches to his students, the record does not establish that he 
has played a leading role inl f s coaching endeavors or provide sufficient evidence that the 
Petitioner works in a critical capacity that is of significant importance to the success of the coaching 
business. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence establishing that I Is coaching 
business is an organization or establishment that enjoys a distinguished reputation, as the evidence is 
limited to I Is own statements and a few screenshots from his coaching website. The 
record does not include independent evidence confirming the distinguished reputation of D I ~ s coaching business in the industry. 
With respect to the Petitioner's rol1~-----1 the record contains a screenshot from the 
~zation' s website indicating tha was founded in 2013 by I I and c=J 
L__J "to promote the talents and ambitions o ~-----_,' with "vested interest in Holl7':ood 
dealings." However, the record does not contain any independent evidence regarding I or its 
reputation that would support a finding that it enjoys a distinguished reputation in the Petitioner's 
industry. As discussed above,I I identifies the Petitioner as a Member of the "rmmittee" and 
indicates that he has "played a pivotal role in the development of,__ ____ _, artists for our 
organization." However, his statements do not clearly identify what the Petitioner's role encompasses 
or sufficiently explain how he has contributed to the overall success of the organization's activities. 
Finally, with respect to the Beneficiary's role with I I I I the record contains a letter from senior lead .... 1-.n-s-tr_u_c-to-r-:_1-_-...,-.:====-=--=--=.~[ -w_h_o_st-a-te-s-th_a_t_h_e_, 
expanded his I O I teachings to include stunt choreography and "decided to bring [the 
Petitioner] on board as an assi~tant to some of my personal clients who are currently very successful 
in the entertainment industry." I I explains that since the Petitioner had been trained in stunt 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 
choreography and stage combat, he possessed the "knowledge to help adapt from its 
traditional training and movements to acting scenes, camera angles and stunts for movies."~---~ 
further states that the Petitioner "was so successful in expanding my knowledge and explaining set 
designs and position that I brought hitp on nersonf lly to help train I I' His letter was 
accompanied by two blog articles aboutl._ ____ ~but the Petitioner did not submit any additional 
evidence in support of a claim that the particular studio where I I works enjoys a distinguished 
reputation. 
Although the Petitioner references I Is letter on appeal, he has not established how he served 
in a leading or critical role withl O O I by acting as an 
assistant for one of its instructor's "personal clients." In fact, it is unclear whether he was even 
employed by the organization or whether he simply assisted I I with his own pri Ii n 
Further, as n9ted the r~cord cont;ius qo independent evidence establishin that I ~ or LL ____ ,---___ 7 _ ____.JJ enjoys a distinguished reputation;~--~'s statement 
that he personally trained'----~ for a movie is not sufficient to establish the reputation of the 
establishment that employs him. The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence of his leading 
or critical role with this organization or the organization's distinguished reputation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner was previously granted 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), affd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if 
a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not 
bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
6 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 MATTER OF L-D-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
. Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 5, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
' 
The Petitioner .seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. See' 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 1_53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available _to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive docm;nentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-·140, .Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding. that the Petitioner had· not shown that she met any of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three . 
. On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and contends that she qualifies as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. .. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue· work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
" · Matter of L-D-C-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships , and published material in certain media). 
-Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then· consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is col)sistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined . not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the· principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility , both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence , to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner intends to work as a financial advisor and asserts that she qualifies as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in business. As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a 
major, internationally recognized award, she must demonstrate that she satisfies at least three of the 
ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Acting Director held that the Petitioner did not meet 
any of these criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets the criteria for awards, 
membership, judging, original contributions of major significance, scholarly articles, display, 
leading or. critical role, and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), and (iv)-(ix). Upon 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies at least three criteria. 1 
Documentation of'the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards.for excellence in ihefield of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner asserts on appeal that she meets this criterion based on awards she received from the 
and from a barangay chairman in the 
Philippines. Specifically, the award certificates from indicate that she was nominated as 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director erred in conducting the two step analysis set ·out in Kazarian. She 
states that under the approach in Buletini v. INS. 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1234 (E.D. Mich. 1994), once three of the regulatory 
requirements are met, she has met pri;,ia facie eligibility and the burden of proof shifts to USCIS to demonstrate by· 
"specific and substantiated evidence" why the petitioner is not qualified . Here, we need not address this claim because 
the Petitioner has not established that she meets three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
2 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
the "Top Grosser of the Month," the "Employee of the. Month," and that she received the " 
. Apprentice I" award. The record contains certificates of recognition from other corporations, 
including one from for being the 2003 GOLD awardee -financial 
advisor level, and another from , for ranking fifth in regional sales in the region 
of Manila. The Petitioner also submitted a ''Certificate of Excellence" from the Chairman of the 
Barangay locality in Philippines, stating that this certificate was 
awarded.for her continuing excellence and contributions to the barangay. 
The record contains other award certifo;:ates, some of which appear incomplete. We note that one 
award contains signature lines and an individual's title but it is not actually signed and there is no 
indication of the company in which the award was given. Doubt cast on any aspect of the 
petitioner's evidence may lead to a reevaluation of the reliability and sufficiency of the remaining 
evidence offered in support of the visa petition. Matter qf Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-592 (BIA 
1988). It is incumbent' upon the petitioner to resolve any inconsisteJ,?.cies in the record by 
independent objective evidence, and attempts to explain or reconcile such inconsistencies, absent 
c?mpetent objective evidence pointing to where the truth, in fact, lies, will not suffice '. Id. 
Upon review of the record in totality, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence regarding the criteria 
for these certificates, and thus has not demonstrated that they are awards for excellence in her field 
of endeavor. Similarly , the Petitioner has provided proof that these awards receive national or 
international recognition. Therefore, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field.for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members. as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields.· 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion on account of her· employment with 
She cites a letter from team leader, indicating that the Petitioner 
provides- "outstanding support" as a "finance experience advisor." This letter refers to the 
Petitioner's work performance but does not indicate that outstanding achievements are required for 
employment with The record does not contain evidence regarding the hiring practices of 
to demonstrate that it requires outstanding achievements as a condition of employment 
with the company as judged by "recognized national or international expe11s in their disciplines or 
fields." Therefore , the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
1 
Eviden·ce qf the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as ajudge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of spec(ficafion fhr which class(fication is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The record contains two letters inviting the Petitioner to judge events. invited the 
Petitioner to serve as a judge of a debate at School, and asked her to 
serve as a judge for the business development marketing campaign of . However, 
the letter from ~-- does not identify the subject of the student debate, and the record lacks 
3 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
other evidence demonstrating that this event involved judging the work of others in the same or an 
allied field. Furthermore, the regulation required evidence of participation as a judge, not simply an 
invitation to do so. The Petitioner has not submitted evidence demonstrating that she actually 
performed as a judge at either of these events. 
In addition, the Petitioner references her participation in the "Outstanding Yoimg Achievers" everit 
in 2002, but the record does not establish that her involvement in this event entailed judging the 
work of others. We note that the Acting Director discussed the lack of supporting documentation for 
these events in the RFE and the decision, but the Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence to 
corroborate these claims. Therefore, she has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific. scholarly. artistic. athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[fzcance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
This regulatory criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements that the petitioner must satisfy. The 
contributions must be original and scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related in 
nature. Next, the contributions must rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, 
rather than to a project or to an organization. The term "contributions of major significance" 
connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 
3d at 134. 
The Petitioner correctly notes that the Director failed to address her claim to this eligibility criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted a recommendation letter from who states that the Petitioner 
worked part-time for her company as an agent and finance officer. speaks highly of the 
Petitioner's dedication to her work, but this does not represent ·evidence of her original contributions 
and does not establish that any of her contributions are of major significance in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner .submits additional letters from former managers attesting to her dedication 
and positive attitude. President of the 
discusses the Petitioner's dedication to the organization, noting that "her contributions in [the 
company's] workplace over the years have been substantial" and were the main reason for the 
company 's success. In one letter, states that under her leadership running a finance 
department, productivity increased by 25 percent while maintaining high standards of quality. 
Similarly, the letters in the record from the Petitioner's colleagues at discuss her customer 
service support, her knowledge of the company's products and operating procedures, and her 
·1eadership. 
We note that these letters identify· contributions to a particular company, and the Petitioner has not 
shown that they had an impact on the greater field. Letters from colleagues that do not specifically 
identify contributions or detail how those. contributions influenced the field are insufficient. 
Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F.3d at 1036: a.ff'd in petri 596 F.3d 1115. Therefore, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion, 
4 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
Evidence of the alien's authorship o_f scholarly articles in the field. in pro_fessional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 CF.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) . 
For the first time on appeal the Petitioner asserts that she meets this criterion based on her 
association with USA. and Philippines. She states that she has authored articles 
published in major media. 
Beyond her statement in the brief, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence related to the articles to 
establish that they are scholarly or that they were published in qualifying media. USClS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. I 756. inc. v. The US Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp .. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). Therefore, these requirements have not been met. 
Evidence o_f the display of the alien 's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner states that her webpage relating to her. products is sufficient to satisfy this 
criterion, but the record does not contain evidence supporting this assertion. She has not submitted a 
copy of this webpage and has not shown that this was displayed at an artistic exhibition.2 Therefore, 
the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1:formed in a leading or critical role .fiJr organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For a leading role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner is or was a leader.3 If a critical 
role, the evidence must establish that the petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant 
importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. A supporting role may 
be considered "critical" if the petitioner's performance in the role is or was important in that way. It 
is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather his or her performance in the role that determines 
whether'the role is or was critical.4 · · 
The record contains a letter from who identifies herself as the head financial advisor of 
, indicating that the Petitioner "assumed a leadership role in finance 
' The Pe1;1;onec dies 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(4) whkh stat~s thaj comparable ev;denc< may be subm;tted to establ;sh 
eligibility if the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iHx) do 7ot readily apply to her occupation. This regulation 
requires that a petitioner demonstrate why a criterion is not readily applicable to his or her occupation and how the 
submitted evidence is comparable to that criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Ewdumion <il 
Evidence Suhmirted wilh Certain Form 1-140 Pe1itions: Revisions 10 !he Adjudicator ·s Field Manual (A FMi Chapter 
22.2, AF/\,/ Update ADI /-14 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Laws/Memoranda/i-
140-evidence-pm-6002-005-l.pdf. Here, the Petitioner has not discussed why this criterion does not readily apply to her 
occupation and does not submit evidence that is comparable to this criterion . 
3.See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1. Evahiutio11 c!fEvidenc:e S11b111i11ed with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisi<ins to the Adjudicatm< ~ Field Aiunua/ (AFA.fJ Chap1er 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 10 (Dec. 22. 2010), 
https :/ /www.useis.gov Is ites/defau lt/fi les/U SC I S/Laws/Memoranda /i-I 40-evidence-pm-6002-005-1 . pdf. 
4 Id. . 
5 
.
Matter of L-D-C-
meetings, inspiring and motivating other employees and representatives of [the] organization." This 
letter does not specify the details of what leadership position the Petitioner held or how her work had 
a significant impact on the organization's activities. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not submitted 
evidence establishing that _______ has a distinguished reputation. 
The record also contains a letter from the head of the 
Philippines, stating that the Petitioner served as a financial advisor in her office. attests 
to the Petitioner's productivity, positive attitude, organizational skills, and diligence in the 
organization, but this does not demonstrate that she had a leading or critical role. The record does 
not contain evidence indicating she performed a leadership role in or otherwise performed 
activities that were critical t,o the success of the organization. The Acting Director noted that the 
Petitioner had not shown that she performed a leading or critical role for or 
and had not submitted evidence establishing that these)organizations have a distinguished 
reputation. The Petitioner has not submitted additional evidence about the group or her role in 
the organization on appeal. Therefore, the record does not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or · other signfficantly high 
remuneration.for services, in relation to o~hers in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). · 
The record contains a letter from manager at attesting to the Petitioner's 
salary, as a brand specialist, but this letter does not contain specific details of her compensation, 
using the phrase "more or less" and an approximation of amounts received in monthly incentives. 
The Petitioner also submitted documentation from payscale.com, providing details of salaries for 
finance and administrationmanagers in the However, she has not established that the salaries 
of finance and administration managers relate to her work as a brand specialist. Due to the lack of 
specific details regarding the Petitioner's salary, and without additional corroborating evidence, she 
has not established that she has had a high salary in relation to others in the field to meet this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because she has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement, or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian; 596 F.3d at 1119.:20. Nevertheless, w:e advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggreg<;1te, concluding thatit does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has.established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. ; 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
J. 
Cite as Matter ofL-D-C-, ID# 1956574 (AAO Feb. 5, 2019) 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6433225 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a civil engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Administrative Appeals Office (AAO) dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The 
matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider . 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2) . A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish 
that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or Service policy. A motion to reconsider 
a decision on an application or petition must, when filed, also establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion 
that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations , a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration , a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
In the 77-page brief submitted on motion, the Petitioner does not clearly differentiate between 
arguments for reopening and those for reconsideration. Attempting two separate discussions of the 
motion would further complicate matters. Considered in the aggregate, as discussed below, the 
Petitioner has not made a persuasive case in favor of granting either motion. 
A General Claims 
The Petitioner claims that the April 2019 appellate decision "is void and invalid" because the AAO "did 
not read the appellant's case," "totally ignored the ... appeal," and gave undue weight to the Director's 
2 
denial decision instead of rendering a de novo decision. The Petitioner asserts, therefore, that we must 
render a new appellate decision, including a full adjudication of the petition. 1 
The record, however, refutes these claims. Our nine-page appellate decision included several references 
to the Petitioner's appeal, including claims and evidence that the Petitioner submitted for the first time on 
appeal. The Petitioner refers to several of these points on motion. 
The Petitioner cites several instances of case law, but does not show how the cited cases establish error 
in the appellate decision. For example, the Petitioner cites Matter of Dhanasar, 26 I&N Dec. 884 (AAO 
2016), by which USCIS "adopt[ ed] a new framework for adjudicating national interest waiver petitions" 
filed under section 203(b )(2)(B)(i) of the Act. The present case, however, does not involve a national 
interest waiver petition. 2 The Petitioner has not shown that Dhanasar embodies any broader principles 
which would apply to the present proceeding. 
The Petitioner devotes a substantial portion of his brief to disputing aspects of the Kazarian decision and 
how U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has interpreted that decision. USCIS adopted 
key elements of the Kazarian decision in USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual 
(AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/ 
policy-memoranda. 
While a motion to reconsider is the proper forum for alleging incorrect application of law or policy, 
the Petitioner, here, disputes the policy itself The AAO has no authority to overturn a circuit court 
decision or overrule a USCIS policy memorandum, and therefore the Petitioner's assertions regarding 
USCIS' interpretation of Kazarian lie outside the scope of a motion to reconsider. 
B. Eligibility Criteria 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) allow a petitioner to meet the initial eligibility 
threshold by meeting at least three of ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1119 (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
1 The Petitioner also asserts that we must "waiv[ e] the cunent foes." The proper procedure for requesting such a waiver would 
be to file Form T-912, Request for Fee Waiver, and waivers are issued only on the basis of an inability to pay the foe, rather 
than allegations ofUSCTS enor. 
2 The Petitioner filed such a petition in November 2016, concunently with the present petition, but that petition is not the 
subject of the present motion. USCIS records indicate the national interest waiver petition remains pending, because the 
Petitioner's subsequent appeal and motion filings have kept his file at the AAO, and thus unavailable to Service Center 
adjudicators. 
3 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step 
analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be determined not by the quantity of 
evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we examine "each piece of evidence 
for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and within the context of the totality 
of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 
I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's claim to have met seven of the regulatory 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
We found that the Petitioner had met only two criteria, specifically (iii) and (vi). The Petitioner contends, 
on motion, that he met all seven claimed criteria, plus an eighth criterion, (iv), judging the work of others, 
that he had not previously claimed. 3 The Petitioner asserts error in our findings regarding those criteria, 
and in some cases submits additional evidence. 
Upon consideration of the Petitioner's claims and evidence on motion, we do not find that he has met any 
regulatory criteria beyond the two previously granted. We discuss the denied criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In our dismissal decision, we noted that the Petitioner relied primarily on "awards he received as a 
youth or student," as well as "certificates received for voluntary work." We found that the Petitioner 
had not established that the submitted materials were evidence of nationally or internationally 
recognized awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that three of the certificates represent prizes in a "national 
tournament." Those certificates related to creative writing, whereas he has identified his field of 
endeavor as civil engineering. As such, the Petitioner does not explain how the certificates in creative 
writing relate to his field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner also emphasizes that he received a letter from a Saudi prince, and he contends that this 
letter is, itself: an award for excellence "due to [the] rareness of issuing such a letter." The Petitioner 
3 Because the Petitioner did not previously claim to have satisfied the judging criterion, we did not err by failing to consider it. 
4 
relies heavily on this letter, stating that it is not only a prize or award, but also (1) remuneration for 
services; (2) evidence of a leading or critical role; and (3) evidence of original contributions of major 
significance. 
The letter acknowledges the Petitioner's submission of proposals to the Saudi government, but it gives 
no indication that the government actually adopted or implemented those proposals, nor does it say 
what those proposals were. (The Petitioner contends that USCIS has no legitimate interest in asking, 
because it is a matter between him and a foreign government.) The Petitioner takes the position that 
signed correspondence from royalty is a rare and coveted honor, but the wording of the letter suggests 
nothing more than a courteous acknowledgement that the Saudi government had received the 
Petitioner's submission. 
The Petitioner does not establish, on motion, that he received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
In our appellate decision, we considered the Petitioner's membership in the Egyptian Engineering 
Syndicate (EES), but found that the Petitioner had not shown that the membership requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner maintains that "[t]o be a member in the PhD category, one needs to have an outstanding 
achievement in the PhD, as there is a committee that checks the authenticity of theses and research 
value." The Petitioner does not cite any prior evidence, or submit new evidence, to support this 
assertion. He identifies two websites on motion, stating that they include more information about 
EES membership. One of these links leads to a "Page Not Found" error message; the other indicates 
that the only membership requirement relevant to one's abilities or credentials is a bachelor's degree 
in engineering. The website does not indicate that the EES has a "PhD category" of membership, or 
explain the requirements for that category beyond possession of a doctorate. 4 
The Petitioner does not establish, on motion, that he is a member of associations in the field that require 
outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
On motion, the Petitioner points to examples of his work, generally discussed previously. The 
originality of his work is not in question, but the Petitioner does not establish its major significance. 
The observation that a graduate student cited the Petitioner's work in a master's thesis shows that the 
4 The functional website is located at http://nazra.org/en/node/359 (visited Feb.5, 2020). 
5 
Petitioner's work has gotten the attention of that student, but it is not indicative or emblematic of 
impact or influence throughout the field. 
The Petitioner asserts that his findings regarding the use of sand "disrupt some aspects of the field that 
[were] previously thought to be canonical," but the Petitioner does not document any significant 
changes to civil engineering practices that arose from his work. 
The Petitioner has not shown, on motion, that he has made original contributions of major significance. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 e.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In our appellate decision, we acknowledged the Petitioner's submission ofletters of appreciation from 
various sources, but found that the Petitioner had not shown that these letters demonstrated that the 
Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role, or, in several instances, that the entities providing the 
letters have distinguished reputations. 
On motion, the Petitioner disputes our findings but does not establish error. The Petitioner contends 
that the organizations in question "would never give complementation [sic] letters to unknown people . 
. . . [They] would only provide appreciation letters to well-known, highly respected individuals." The 
Petitioner's uncorroborated assertions about the letters are not sufficient grounds to reopen the 
proceeding or reconsider the dismissal of the appeal. Likewise, the Petitioner does not support his 
contention that the entities have distinguished reputations because they are "legally registered." 
Existence as a legal entity is not the same thing as distinction. An entity can only be distinguished in 
comparison to others of its kind; no organization is distinguished simply by nature of its existence or 
registration. 
The Petitioner has also not supported the claim that "every action/role/response to a need, like solving 
a problem or satisfying a necessity for an institute or an individual is a critical role." This definition 
is so broad that it would appear to encompass everyone who has ever worked for any organization, on 
either a paid or volunteer basis. 
Noting that users contacted some of the sources that provided such letters, the Petitioner asserts that 
the "providers feel highly uncomfortable" being asked about the matter, and the Petitioner asks "the 
reason for contacting the [letter] providers." users has the investigative authority to make reasonable 
efforts to verify the Petitioner's claims and evidence, and exercising that authority is not an abuse of 
power, as the Petitioner contends. See section 204(b) of the Act, 8 U.S.e. § l 154(b), which calls for 
"investigation of the facts in each case." Furthermore, those verification efforts showed the 
Petitioner's documents to be authentic, and therefore they did not contribute to the dismissal of the 
appeal. 
The Petitioner details the activities that he performed for some of the entities that provided reference 
letters and asserts that we should study the letters closely. We took the letters into consideration in 
the prior appellate decision, and the Petitioner has not established that our initial review of these 
materials was deficient. The Petitioner has not established the necessity for an additional full review 
G 
of the record (which typically would be beyond the scope of a post-appellate motion). The burden of 
proofremains on the Petitioner to establish eligibility, and the Petitioner's motion does not sufficiently 
address key issues set out in the dismissal decision. 
The Petitioner, on motion, has not shown that he performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high sala,y or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
On motion, the Petitioner contends that a personally signed letter from a Saudi prince is such a rare 
honor that it should be considered a form of remuneration. Furthermore, the Petitioner claims that the 
letter sets him apart from his peers because such letters are "never granted to the appellant's peers in 
the field," but the Petitioner cites no source for this claim. 
The regulatory language refers to monetary compensation. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-
0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the 
Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14, 11 (Dec. 22, 2010), http:// 
www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. The phrase "significantly high remuneration" 
indicates remuneration in a quantifiable amount that can be compared to what others have received. 
The Petitioner cites no evidence that the Department of Justice contemplated non-financial 
remuneration when it promulgated the regulation in question in 1991. Other forms of recognition fall 
under a separate criterion relating to prizes and awards, as discussed above. (As noted previously, the 
Petitioner also claims the prince's letter as an award.) 
The Petitioner has not established, on motion, that he has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 
C. Comparable Evidence 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if they are 
able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the 
alien's occupation. The Petitioner previously claimed that his three advanced degrees and several 
recommendation letters, particularly the letter from the Saudi prince, amount to comparable evidence. 
In our appellate decision, we found that the Petitioner had not shown that the ten standard criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to his occupation. 
On motion, the Petitioner states: "if the alien does not readily meet any one of the enumerated criteria, 
he may provide comparable evidence that demonstrates extraordinary ability." The regulatory 
threshold, however, is not a given alien's inability to "meet any one of the enumerated criteria." 
Rather, a given petitioner must show that those criteria "do not readily apply to the alien's occupation." 
One's inability to meet criteria that do readily apply to one's occupation would tend to point toward 
ineligibility, rather than special consideration of alternative evidence. The Petitioner also maintains 
7 
that he "has already satisfied ... 8 criteria out of 1 0," which directly contradicts any claim that the 
standard criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. 
We addressed the Petitioner's degrees and recommendation letters in our prior decision, and the Petitioner 
has shown no error that would require us to revisit them here. The Petitioner has not established the need 
to consider comparable evidence, or that the evidence so identified would qualify him for the highly 
restrictive immigrant classification that he seeks in this proceeding. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6963747 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a scientific researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition and subsequently affirmed 
his decision on motion, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Pe~ndicates his most recent employment as a senior applied mechanics engineer atl I D inl__J Tennessee from October 2013 to November 2017.1 Because the Petitioner has not 
indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). Although we agree with the Director that the Petitioner authored scholarly articles 
in professional publications, we do not concur with the Director's finding relating to the judging 
criterion, discussed later. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets three additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that he satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues for the first time on appeal that he meets this criterion based on senior 
membership with the International Association of Computer Science and Information Technology 
(IACSIT). 2 In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 3 
1 See the Petitioner's curriculum vitae and Form 1-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. 
Although he provided an approval notice for H-lB nonimmigrant classification for employment withl O I from 
September 2017 to September 2020, the Petitioner indicated that he ceased employment in November 2017. Moreover, 
the record does not show the Petitioner's employment since November 2017. 
2 The Petitioner previously claimed eligibility for this criterion based on his membership with other associations; however, 
he does not argue on appeal, nor does the record reflect, his eligibility based on those associations. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
2 
At the outset, the Petitioner submits a letter from.__ ___________ ___. for IACSIT, dated 
December 2018, thanking him for joining the association. The Petitioner must establish that all 
eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and 
continuing through adjudication. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). As he filed his petition in February 
2018, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his senior membership with IACSIT occurred prior to or 
at the time of his initial filing. 
Notwithstanding the above, the Petitioner contends that senior membership with IACSIT requires "a 
doctor of philosophy and the highest university degree possible." Moreover, he submits screenshots 
from iacsit.org highlighting that "only PhD holders should apply," as well as the benefits of IACSIT 
membership, such as proposing to organize and chair conferences, inviting to review conference and 
journal material, and registering for conferences at discounted rates. Furthermore, he cites to statistics 
of American adults possessing a doctorate degree (1.63%). In addition, he references a letter fromO I I who indicated that he introduced the Petitioner as a senior member ofIACSIT, which 
"is one of the societies that has PhD degree and excellence in the field for a Senior Member," and a 
letter from.__ ________ ~who claimed that the Petitioner "has been an active member of 
the engineering professional organizations but is limited to the committees having the prerequisites 
for its members to have a doctoral degree and who have made significant contributions." 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that the IACSIT' s requirements rise to the level of "outstanding 
achievements" consistent with this regulatory criterion. Instead, based on the presented 
documentation, senior membership for IACSIT exclusively involves possessing a doctoral degree, 
which in-and-of-itself: the Petitioner did not show is tantamount to an outstanding achievement.4 In 
addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that IACSIT requires that an alien has made outstanding 
achievements in the field. Although I I asserted that IACSIT also requires "significant 
contributions," the screenshots from iacsit.org do not support his claim. Furthermore, the Petitioner 
did not establish that recognized national or international experts judge the outstanding achievements 
for membership with IACSIT. 5 Rather, as discussed, IACSIT solely grants senior membership if the 
applicant holds a doctoral degree. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7 (instructing that relevant factors that may lead a conclusion 
that the alien's memberships in the associations were not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are 
not limited to, instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience in 
a particular field). 
5 Id. (stating that the level of membership afforded to the alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, 
the alien was judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the 
field for which classification is sought). 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based on an article published in the Simulia 
Community News. Specifically, the Petitioner clams that "the SIMULIA company invited him to write 
an article for the Company Newsletter," and the article "represents his work." In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 6 
Although the article is about the Petitioner's research regarding the~-----------~ I I, the article is not about him. In fact, the Petitioner is never mentioned in the body of the 
article. Instead, the Petitioner is listed as a contact in the "For More Information" section. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires that the published material to be about the alien 
relating to his work rather than self-authored articles reporting his own work. Articles that are not 
about an alien do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not 
about the actor). Further, while the Petitioner argues the influence of his research discussed in the 
article through reference letters, this criterion requires published material about the Petitioner relating 
to his work rather than the significance or impact of his work in the field. Here, the Petitioner provided 
an article only about his work instead of an article about him relating to his work. 
The Petitioner also rovides a letter from research and development director for ~------------~------, who indicated that the article was "also made 
available as a digital version on our companx's public website." However, the Petitioner did not 
provide screenshots of the website supportingl l's claim. Regardless, the Petitioner did not 
establish that Simulia Community News or the company's public website is a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. The record contains an email from I l who indicated 
that "[w]e are distributing the magazine to about 7000 per issue," and "[t]he SIMULIA website gets 
about 25,000 visitors per month."7 Here, the Petitioner did not show the significance of the circulation 
figures or visits and how such data reflects status as a major medium. 8 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills this criterion. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
7 The record also contains screenshots from Similar Web regarding website traffic and rankings relating toc=J overall 
rather than to the digital version of the company newsletter. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
4 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied.field of specification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
As discussed earlier, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. This regulatory 
criterion requires an alien to show that he has acted as a judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specialization. 9 For the reasons outlined below, the record does not reflect that the 
Petitioner submitted sufficient documentary evidence demonstrating that he meets this criterion, and 
the Director's determination on this issue will be withdrawn. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner claimed eligibility for this criterion based on his review of papers 
at the 2010 Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies ]AMPT2010). The Petitioner 
provided an email from I of AMPT2010, addressed to 
colleagues thanking them for participating and reminding them to complete their reviews for the 
conference. For instance, I I stated that "prompt and accurate reviews are key 
elements to the conference," "commitment to timely conclusion of the reviewing process is helpful to 
boost attendance of authors for oral presentation," and"[ m Jany institutions will not support you [sic] 
author colleagues unless acceptance of the submitted work is finalized and notification takes place." 
Moreover,~-------~ indicated that "[t]his e-mail is to remind you of the necessity to 
conclude the review process in a timely manner," and "[i]t is imperative that we conclude the review 
process ASAP." 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or allied field of specialization. 10 Here, the email does not demonstrate that the Petitioner actually 
completed the paper reviews for AMPT2010.11 Instead, as indicated above, the email reflects a 
reminder to conduct the paper reviews. Moreover, the Petitioner did not present any supporting 
evidence establishing that he, in fact, performed the conference paper reviews. Further, the Petitioner 
did not submit corroborating documentation showing how many or which papers he reviewed at the 
conference. 12 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that he participated as a judge of the 
work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. Accordingly, we withdraw the decision of the 
Director for this criterion. 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
11 Id. (proving an example of peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the alien 
to do the review, accompanied by proof that the alien actually completed the review). 
12 Similarly, the record contains a letter froml Ito the Petitioner inviting him "to act as a reviewer" for 
two journals. However. the Petitioner did not provide any documentary evidence establishing that he actually reviewed 
papers or manuscripts for the journals. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that although the Petitioner satisfies the scholarly articles criterion, he does not meet any 
additional criteria on appeal regarding memberships, published material, and judging. While he argues 
and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal, relating to original contributions of major 
significance at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we need not reach this additional ground. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we 
reserve this issue. 13 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the 
record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established 
the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has conducted research and authored scholarly articles, the record does not 
contain sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5061459 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an online marketplace for vacation home rentals, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a 
software engineer, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, an online marketplace for vacation home rentals, currently employs the Beneficiary as 
a software engineer in the area of risk engineering. The Beneficiary, a software engineer specializing 
in big data and machine learning, holds a master's degree in engineering from the University of I \and a bachelor of technology degree from the National Institute of Technology. 
I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must show that the Beneficiary satisfies at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary 
met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to judging. The record 
contains evidence that the Beneficiary served as a judge for an engineering competition at the 
University of~ ______ __.and reviewed technical book chapters for software engineering 
texts. Accordingly, we agree with the Director. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to 
awards, membership, published materials, original contributions, leading or critical role, and salary. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Beneficiary meets an additional 
criteria relating to high salary or remuneration, but does not satisfy a third, as required. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner asserts the Beneficiary's eligibility through his receipt of numerous awards and 
scholarships. Specifically, it references the Beneficiary's placement of second runner up at the 2017 I I Hackathon, his fourth place win at the I IHackathon at Global Hack 
Week 2017, and his receipt of the 'I t award at Hack Y oci 
201 7. It farther argues he meets this criterion by virtue of his third place finish in the ~e onl I and his 21st place finish in thel IIIacks 201 7: 
L___J competition. The Petitioner also refers to the Beneficiary's placement in the 2012 and 2013 
2 
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants' (CIMA) I I as Runner-up, National 
Final and winner I I respectively, as well as his win of the 20121 I 
Challenge It fina11y asserts that his scholarships from the I I Fqundation 
,,_____ ..... a__,nd thel I Education Trust, his qualification for the 2008 and 2009~-~JNational 
Olympiad in I I, and his certificate of merit for his results in thel !Association of Physics 
Teachers' National standard Examination in Physics demonstrate his eligibility for this criterion. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's placement as second runner-up finalist for the grand prize at the 2017 
~ Hackathon, the Petitioner provides, in relevant part, an article titled I I 
------------~------~ and one titled I I 
I' 1 However, the Petitioner does not provide documentation '------------------' sufficient to demonstrate that being named as the second runner-u finalist constitutes an award or 
prize. The first article mentioned above states I t The record lacks documentation, suc._h_a_s_a_w-ar_d_o_r_p_r-iz_e_c-ert-if-ic_a_t-es-,-o-r-o-th_e_r_m_a-te-r-ia_l__.s 
showing that placing as the second runner up constitutes an award or prize in this competition. We 
note that the record includes the official rules for the 2018 I I which lists prizes 
such as "Best in Show" or "Semi-Final Prize," and awards sponsored by entities such asl I 
and I I However, the Petitioner does not demonstrate how this evidence establishes that 
the Beneficiary's placement at the 2017 .__ ________ __, is indicative of a nationally or 
internationally recognized award. 
Regarding the Beneficiary's.__ __________ ~ prize at Hack Your Tomorrow 2017, the 
Petitioner provides a printout about the competition from http://hackyourtomorrow.com. Here the 
criterion requires that the Petitioner provide documentation showing that the Beneficiary has received 
an award. However, the Petitioner has not done so. Specifically, the printout does not identify any 
winners, and the Petitioner provides no other documentation, such as media, a copy of the award, or 
other meaningful evidence, corroborating its assertion that the Beneficiary and his team were 
recipients of the referenced award. Moreover, the Petitioner does not submit evidence, such as media 
showing that thel laward is nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of software engineering. 
As it relates to the Beneficiary's 4th place win in the I IHackathon at Global Hack Week 
2017 competition, the Petitioner submits a document from medium.com titled I I 
.__ _________ _. Global HackWeek, 2017," information on the judges, and a letter of 
reference from the Beneficiary's teammate,.__ ______ ___, head of product and growth at I I The medium.com article confirms that the Beneficiary, I I and a third team 
member received $3,000 Google credits for placin fourth at the referenced competition with their 
application! I The article notes, from which 
the judges selected five winners. I nlso describes the .__ ___ __,application and the 
Petitioner's role in its development in his letter, stating, "[the Beneficiary] ingeniously came up with 
the technical architecture" and "identified the right components to use and was able to build a service 
oriented architecture for the application." A beneficiary may be considered to be a recipient of a group 
1 The Petitioner also includes the official rules for t~~e........_20"""1...,,8.u.l ________ __,ldiscussed below, a printout from 
inviting participants to the 2018 l I Hackathon, and Wikipedia article about 'i=1====:;-,-
3 
award if they are integral to the group's winning of that award. Here the record reflects that the 
Beneficiary was integral to the winning application's development. Accordingly we consider him a 
recipient of the award. I I also indicates that this work was mentioned several times in the 
press "including atl I Sep 2017 in 
NDTV, and .__ _________ ____.Sep 2017 inl I." While the Petitioner provides 
both a link to youtube.com for and screenshots of the first television program, we note that the 
evidence indicates this video was viewed less than 500 times at the time of filing. This evidence of a 
single television program about the award with relatively low viewership statistics does not support 
the Petitioner's assertion that it is nationally recognized. In addition, the record lacks evidence of the 
second interview beyond the second youtube.com link, and the Petitioner does not show how this 
second interview demonstrates the award is nationally recognized, as required. 
The Petitioner further argues that the Beneficiary's third place win in the ~---------~ ~--------~ meets this criterion. Specifically, it argues that the fact that the competition 
"included some of the world's most recognized data science minds of their generations" and was 
"sponsored by highly reputable British governmental agencies" demonstrates the Beneficiary's receipt 
of an internationally recognized award. Here the record reflects the Beneficiary's receipt of this award, 
as it contains an e-mail confirming that the Beneficiary placed third and a printout from 
datascience.org corroborating his third place win. However, the Petitioner does not show that the third 
place award the Beneficiary received is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the 
field of software engineering. Specifically, the web printout identifies and provides a brief profile for 
the first and second place winners of the competition and indicates that the Defence Science and 
Technology Laboratory (DSTL) is involved with the competition. 2 However, the Petitioner does not 
demonstrate how the Beneficiary's competitors' backgrounds or DSTL's involvement with the 
competition are indicative of the award being internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
software engineering. 3 The Petitioner does not submit other evidence to support its assertion that this 
award is so recognized. 
With respect to theO Hacks 2017: Competition the Petitioner submits an e-
mail thanking the Beneficiary for his participation in the~_J acks._____,, _____ _, llenging, 
and congratulating him for "being shortlisted in for c=)Hacks 2017 - Zonals." 
The Petitioner also provides a printout from www.hackerearth.com titled I t listing the Beneficiary as being in 21st place. W~e_n_o_t_e_t_h_a_t-th_1_· s_d_o_c_u_m-en-t~ 
indicates that this competition was a qualifying round, and "the top 20 participants (per zone) go to 
the next round." The document further indicates that there is a Final Hackathon. The Petitioner does 
not submit documentation to establish that the Bene
1ficiar~ s 21st place finish in a qualifying round, or 
his being shortlisted for the second round of the acks competition, equates to receipt of a 
nationally or internationally recognized prize or award in the field of software engineering. 
The Petitioner also asserts the Beneficiary meets this criterion as he was the Runner- up,I I lat CMIA's 2012 Global Challenge, and the winner for~------~at~ i-ts_2_0-13~ 
2 While the Petitioner asseits that this competition is sponsored by the United Kingdom's Security Service, Mi5, the record 
lacks evidence supp01ting this claim. 
3 The Petitioner provides printouts from www.mi5.gov.uk describing the Security Service, Mi5, one of the competition's 
sponsors and from www.gov.uk discussing data scientist roles at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory in the 
United Kingdom. 
4 
Global Challenge, and as winner of the 2012 ._I -----.-----'l=C=h=a=ll=en=g=e=-=-·---,It submits a copy of a 
certificate identifying the Beneficiary as a winner of the I I Challenge as well as 
rovides certificates from the 2012 and 2013 CIMA challen es, and an article titled 
'--------------------------~--------' published 
online at http://blog.lboro.ac.uk. This article describes the CIMA Global Business Challenge as "an 
international business competition" whose participants will "learn how to analyse and solve a real live 
business case study." The Petitioner does not show that certificates from a business competition are 
the equivalent of nationally or internationally recognized award in the field of software engineering. 
Even had it done so, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the Beneficiary played an integral role 
in these groups' receipt of said certificates, and thus can be considered a recipient, or how placing as 
a runner up in a national final constitutes a nationally or internally recognized award. Regarding the I I Challenge, the Petitioner does not provide documentation about this challenge to establish 
that this certificate constitutes a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence in 
software engineering, as required. 
Finally, the Petitioner asserts the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion based upon his scholarships, 
his qualification for the 2008 and 20091 National Olympiad inl [ and his certificate of 
merit for his results in thd !Association of Physics Teachers' National standard Examination in 
Physics. Regarding the Beneficiary's scholarships from thee=] and the Education 
Trust, the Petitioner submits an e-mail fromc=J identifying him as Scholar for the year 2013 
and a letter from the I I Education Trust awarding him a loan scholarship for 2013. 
However, this documentation does not establish that these scholarships were granted for excellence in 
the field of software engineering. Specifically, the De-mail provides that scholarship recipients 
are students who "exhibit scholastic excellence and demonstrate a strong sense of values, motivation 
and have the potential to become leaders in their chosen field" while thel I Education 
Trust letter indicates that the scholarship is provided for post-graduate studies abroad. Even had these 
documents demonstrated that these scholarships are for excellence in the field of software engineering, 
the record lacks evidence showing that they are nationally or internationally recognized awards or 
pnzes. 
With respect to the 2008 and 2009 I IN ational Olympiad in I l the record contains letters 
stating that the Beneficiary qualified to participate in these events, but does not indicate that he 
received an award or prize at these events. The record lacks evidence establishing that qualifying for 
these events is, in and of itself, an award or prize that is nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of software engineering. Similarly, the record contains a Certificate of Merit 
for the Beneficiary's "Statewise Top 1 %" placement in the National Standard Examination in Physics, 
but lacks evidence showing this to be an award that is nationally or internationally recognized in the 
field of software engineering. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility for this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
5 
The Petitioner asserts the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion through his memberships in IVY, 
the Founders Network, Hive Global, and the Harvard Project for Asian and International Relations 
(HPAIR.) As it relates to the Founders Network, the Petitioner submits an e-mail confirming the 
Beneficiary's membership and a document titled "About Founders Network." While the former 
confirms his membership, the latter is not sufficient to demonstrate that this entity requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their field. 
Specifically, the stated membership criteria do not reflect a requirement that its members have 
outstanding achievements in the field of software engineering. Rather, the criteria include having "a 
long-term vision of building a lifelong peer mentorship community" and shared "values of 
authenticity, reciprocity, humility, and respect." Further, applicants should be "building a tech 
startup"4 and "working on [their] start-up full-time" as well as "willing to pay annual membership 
dues." They must also "abide by our no selling policy" and be "a Native English speaker or a TOEFL 
score above 80." The Petitioner does not show how these requirements reflect outstanding 
achievements, nor does it provide other materials such as bylaws, organizational documents, or other 
relevant materials, demonstrating that membership in the Founders Network requires outstanding 
achievements of its members. Moreover, while the document states "[e]ach month our Membership 
Committee admits a new cohort of full-time tech founders who are nominated by an existing member," 
the Petitioner does not submit information on this committee, or otherwise demonstrate that it is 
comprised of nationally or internationally recognized experts in the field of software engineering, as 
required. 
With respect to the Beneficiary's membership in IVY, the Petitioner submits an e-mail from the SF 
Community Manager at IVY congratulating him on his approval to "join the IVY Family" and a 
document titled "IVY The Social University." To establish eligibility for this criterion, the 
documentation must be of the Beneficiary's membership in an association in the field for which 
classification sought, in the instant case, software engineering. Here the aforementioned document 
describes IVY as an entity whose "mission is to spark world changing collaborations" with 
"curriculum areas" of "entrepreneurship, arts & culture, social impact, policy, wellness, philosophy 
and science." The Petitioner does not demonstrate how this shows IVY to be an association in the 
field of software engineering. 
Even had it done so, we note that the Petitioner does not provide sufficient documentation to establish 
that membership in IVY is based upon the Beneficiary's outstanding achievements, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in the field of software engineering. The aforementioned 
document states that the membership process consists of an application and interview, after which the 
IVY Membership Committee makes a decision on the member, and provides a list of the current 
committee members. A page titled "IVY Membership Process" states, "[t]he most important 
requirement to become a member is the intellectual curiosity and a commitment to making a positive 
impact." The Petitioner does not show how intellectual curiosity or a commitment to making a positive 
impact represent outstanding achievements in his field of endeavor. The record lacks other materials, 
such as IVY' s bylaws or organizational documents that might demonstrate that IVY requires 
outstanding achievements of its members in software engineering. 
4 The document provides examples of tech staiiups including such as "enterprise or consumer software, IoT, clean or health 
tech. etc." 
6 
The Petitioner also asserts the Beneficiary's eligibility through Hive Global and the Harvard Project 
for Asian and International Relations (HP AIR). However, the record lacks evidence of his 
membership in these organizations. As it relates to Hive Global, the Petitioner submits a letter 
confirming the Beneficiary's acceptance into Hive Global's "3-day leadership training program," and 
a printout titled "Hive Global Leaders Program" from hive.org. This printout describes the program 
as being for "mission-driven leaders, innovators, and entrepreneurs" and "designed as an entry into a 
lifelong community of leaders." The Petitioner does not provide evidence, such as bylaws or other 
documentation, showing that the program extends membership to individuals, or otherwise 
demonstrating that participation in Hive Global' s leadership training program is the equivalent of such 
a membership. 
With respect to the HP AIR Asia Conference, the Petitioner submits a letter inviting the Beneficiary to 
attend its Asia Conference. It also provides a printout from hpair.org titled "About HP AIR" describing 
the conference as a "5-day academic program" whose attendees will gain exposure to "issues spanning 
multiple arenas, including political, social, economic, cultural, and business." However, the Petitioner 
does not demonstrate that the conference is an entity that extends membership to individuals, nor does 
it show how the Beneficiary's attendance at the conference constitutes such a membership. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation sufficient to establish that 
the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner submits numerous articles 
that "highlight the significance and popularity of [the Beneficiary's] work" or mention "[the 
Beneficiary J's other projects." One set of articles referenced by the Petitioner in its appellate brief 
discuss the Beneficiar 's revious and current em lo ers' business activities. 5 For example, the 
article '~---------------------------~' published on 
bloomberg.com, discusses the Petitioner's acquisition of the Beneficiary's previous employer. 
Another article, '.__ ___________________ ____. reprinted on medium.com 
from the Wall Street Journal, discusses the Beneficiary's previous employer and its work, and features 
quotes from its founderJ I However, in order to establish eligibility for this criterion, 
the published material should be about the Beneficiary relating to his work in the field, not just about 
his employer. 6 Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding 
that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
5 While we discuss only a sampling of the aiticles here, we have reviewed all of the materials in the record. 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions: 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/P o licyManual.html. 
7 
As an additional matter, while we consider bloomberg.com and the Wall Street Journal to be major 
media, the remainder of the articles are published at techcrunch.com, siliconangle.com, medium.com, 
and inc42.com. However, the record lacks evidence, such as circulation statistics or other relevant 
data, establishing that the on-line circulation for siliconangle.com, medium.com, and inc42.com is 
high relative to that of other websites, or information about the websites demonstrating that they are 
professional or major trade publications. 7 Regarding techcrunch.com, the Petitioner submits a 
Wikipedia article8 indicating that it is "an online publisher of technology industry news," but does not 
include on-line circulation or other statistics, or other comparative evidence showing that its 
viewership is relatively high such that it qualifies as a major medium. 
On appeal, the Petitioner identifies additional articles that it asserts are about the Beneficiary as they 
"mentioned his] other ro·ects." Three of these, 
,, " 'published 
on techcrunch. com, and ' I f' published on m~o-b-il-es_y_ru_p_.c_o_m_, -a-re_a_b_o_~_t_t_h_e_B_e_n_et-i-c1-. a-rv_a_n_d_r-el-a-te_t_o_h_1_· s-w-o-rk--T-h~e 
Petitioner also submits a foreign language article, l I I l" published at latribuna.hn along with a certified, foll English translation of this article, 
about the Beneficiary and relating to his work. However, as we note above, the Petitioner has not 
established that techcrunch.com is a professional or major trade publication or a major medium, and 
here the record lacks evidence demonstrating the same as it relates to mobilesyryup.com or to 
latribuna.hn. In addition, the article published on latribuna.hn does not include an author, as required 
per 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
A fourth article, I ~ publis~h-ed_o_n_b_u_s_i_n_e-ss_w_1-.r-e-.c-o-m-in_c_l_u_d_e_s_a_l_is_t_o_f __ t_e_a_m_s-an_d_p_ro_~--e-c-ts-,-i-n_cl_u_d-in_g_o_n_e_t-it-le-d~ 
I I highlighted by the Petitioner. However, the article does not mention the Beneficiary or 
otherwise demonstrate that it is about him and related to his work. As we note above, articles that are 
not about a beneficiary do not meet this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner does not provide 
evidence demonstrating that busineswire.com is a professional or major trade publication or major 
medium. 
~' the Petitioner asserts that two articles about the Beneficiar 's work on 
l__J' ' from ndtvprime.com 
and ".__~ _________ ----,-, establish his eligibility for this criterion. As we note above, the 
record includes a series of screenshots from youtube.com with a caption reading 'I I I ~ and the logo for NDTV Prime. While this series of screenshots includes one titled 
and one titled ' it also 
includes shots with text readin and .--------------~.........,_ ______________ ___, 
.__ ____________ ___.' While this is sufficient to show that the first interview is, in part, 
about the competition, it is not sufficient to establish that it is about the Beneficiary. In addition, the 
document from ndtv.com titled "About the Company," does not include on-line circulation statistics 
or statistics for other websites establishing that ndtv.com is a major medium. Furthermore, USCIS 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
8 We note that Wikipedia is an online. open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee 
the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (January 28, 2020) 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
8 
need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 
SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major 
media). With respect to the second article,.__ __________ ___,' the Petitioner provides a 
text link to youtube.com that does not identify the Beneficiary, and the record lacks sufficient evidence 
demonstrating that this television program is about him and related to his work, as required. 
For the above stated reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that establishes that the 
Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only has a beneficiary made original 
contributions, but also that these contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that a beneficiary's contributions have been widely implemented 
throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have risen to a level of 
major significance in the field. Here the Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary is eligible for this 
criterion based on his original work in the field of software engineering, as demonstrated through the 
filing of a provisional patent, articles he has written, and recommendation letters. 
With respect to the patent, the Petitioner submits a provisional patent application titled i~----~ I I' identifying the Beneficiary as one of two the principal inventors. 9 A 
patent may recognize the originality of an invention or idea, but does not necessarily establish it as a 
contribution of major significance in the field. The record includes a letter from I I 
senior patent counsel for the Petitioner, noting that "developing an original innovation that provides 
sufficient value to [the Petitioner] to justify expending its resources to submit" the atent is "a 
testimony to the originality and innovative nature of [the Beneficiary]'s work." head of 
trust platform and foundational modeling for the Petitioner, describes an'-----------~ 
for which this patent has been filed and notes that he "strongly believes that [ the Beneficiary]' s original 
work is extremely valuable intellectual property and has strong use cases and transformative value in 
the industry." In her letter,.__ _____ ____. global mobility and benefits manager for the Petitioner, 
also mentions that the Petitioner had filed this patent on behalf of the Beneficiary. However, these 
letters do not explain or demonstrate how the patent has already influenced or impacted the field or is 
otherwise considered an original contribution of major significance in the field. 
With respect to documents authored by the Beneficiary, the record reflects that he has authored and 
had published original articles "pertaining to software engineering, machine learning, risk assessment 
and engineering, and building models for trust and risk" as the Petitioner argues on appeal. However, 
the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's authorship and publication of articles on websites 
such as medium.com, indeed.com, or in an alumnae magazine, show the major significance of his 
original contributions in software engineering. Publications are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 
9 We note that the Petitioner has not established that the United States Patent and Trademark Office has awarded this 
patent. 
9 
204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they are of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009) ajf'd in part 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Further, the Petitioner 
does not provide evidence showing how the Beneficiary's authorship of these articles were majorly 
significant in the field. 10 
The letters ofrecommendation in the record identify several of the Beneficiary's original contributions 
in the field of software engineering. 11 I Is letter identifies the Beneficiary's "development of 
a novel method to create probability distribution of a topic given the date" as part of his participation 
in the Data Science Challenge, but does not provide specific examples of how t9is method bas hee11 
implemented widely in the field, or is otherwise majorly significant in the field. I I ~------~ managing director of details how the Beneficiar 's developed "an ilgorithj 
for I !attributes" f r n " xtended 's 
I ~ algorithm to include I !matching." ~------,---'' chief executive 
officer atl I notes, "when working as a Summer Analyst at I I 
[the Beneficiary] built an alerting system which identified investments which were close to Value at I I" However, the language of this regulatory criterion requires that the Beneficiary's original 
contributions be "of major significance in the field" rather than mainly affecting his employer. See 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 134-35 (D.D.C. 2013) (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer 
had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a whole). These 
letters do not sufficiently illustrate how the Beneficiary's contributions to these companies have been 
widely implemented throughout the field, or have remarkably impacted or influenced the field such 
that they rise to the level of "a contribution of major significance." 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner does not show that the Beneficiary has met this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner also asserts that the Beneficiary has served in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence 
must establish that a beneficiary is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help 
to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 12 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a beneficiary has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a beneficiary's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 13 In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished 
reputation, which is marked by 
Regarding the Beneficiary's criti~) ro)e for the Petitioner, the record includes the aforementioned 
letter froml I and one fro I, director of engineering and head of trust and safety 
10 We note that one article identified on appeal,~---=--=--.------------------­
is under review. and the record does not reflect that it had been published at the time that the Petitioner filed this petition 
on the Beneficiary's behalf 
11 While we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
12 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); see also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
10 
operations for the Petitioner. I states that the Beneficiary "built a highly sophisticated 
machine learning model. .. to determine if the transaction is risky." He continues, noting that the 
P i i n r 1 the development of "multiple iterations of the model" that is "deployed in the D 
'--;::===::::;-_.of [the Petitioner.]"! I asserts that this work resulted in a "0.51 % improvement 
in.__ __ _. and $11.8 million improvement in revenue" and that it "significantly influenced the 
strategy of the Identity team at [ the Petitioner]." He identifies this as "one of the high impact works 
of software engineering" and that it was not possible without the Beneficiary's "extraordinary aptitude 
and expertise." 
.__ __ ___,I also refers to this work done by the Beneficiary that "increased the company's revenue by 
an estimated $11. 8 million a year." His letter forth er states that the model described above "drove one 
of the largest improvements in the company's primary metric by any individual project at [the 
Petitioner] in 2018." He farther states that this project was "critical to [the Petitioner J's mission as it 
helps to keep [its] Lr----,__-~ _ __JWlowever, the Petitioner does not provide evidence 
corroborating eithe~ f s o~ .... ---~-_.~s assertions with regard to the Beneficiary's direct 
impact on the Petitioner's revenue. The record similarly lacks evidence establishing the impact on the 
Identity team's strategy, as claimed byl I or showing how the work drove the largest 
improvement by any individual project, as I I states. These conclusory statements are 
insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. See 1756, Inc. v. United States 
Att)· Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990) (noting that we need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements). Finally, the Petitioner does not submit documentation to establish that it enjoys a 
distinguished reputation, as required. 
To farther establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner rovides letters of 
support from I I co-founder and chief executive officer of~_....,..........._ ___ __., 
I I, engineering mana er at the Petitioner engineering manager for the.__ ____ _. I~---~ I team, an '---------~ visiting scholar at I !university. 
I landl lboth assert that the Beneficiary played a critical role forl • I his 
prior employer. I I notes that he"built the I I mode~for users," a 
project that was "a ke element in helpingl ., lacquire customers in the industry such 
as I l" whileL_ ___ ~___j-=........,~1-the Beneficiary] was fondamenta mt e creation ... of 
codes and algorithms" used by .__ ___ __. However, these letters do not provide detailed 
explanations nor does the record contain evidence showing how the Beneficiary's work resulted in 
these outcomes. Both l land I I assert that the Beneficiary's work contributed 
greatly to I l's financial success, and note that the company's peak revenue was over $3 million. 
Again, the Petitioner does
1not prlvide evidence corroborating these assertions. The record also lacks 
evidence establishing that enjoys a distinguished reputation . 
.__ __ ___,I describes the Beneficiary as "in the top 1 %" of engineers" he has worked with and provides 
two examples of the Beneficiary's work. He notes his work in building "a monitoring tool for the 
entire cluster" that was "extremely useful for maintaining the cluster, reducing the downtime and 
improving the efficiency of the team." I I also describes "a visualization dashboard" built by 
the Beneficiary that "allowed product and business users ... to make data-driven decisions."! I 
opines that this work was "critical to operations." Here these examples show the importance of the 
Beneficiary's work tol I team and to data and business users, but neither the letter nor 
11 
evidence in the record show that these projects were of significant importance to the outcome of the 
establishment's activities, as required. As we note above, we need not accept conclusory statements. 
Moreover, the record lacks evidence demonstrating that the ~---------~enjoys a 
distinguished reputation. 
Fina11,,J 7 focuses on the Beneficiary's work developing software applications fµr..Jlw; I rTechnologyto allow the project to "take information on public services inL_J 
that are available online, and share them with stakeholders living in rural areas, who do not have access 
to the internet." I I describes these two applications and concludes that this work was 
"essential in promoting the main purpose of the Program," but does not provide detailed examples of 
how it was essential, or was otherwise significant to the Program's outcomes. Letters that lack 
specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 14 As with the other 
organizations, we note that the Petitioner does not provide evidence showing that this Program has a 
distinguished reputation, as required. 
The Petitioner therefore has not provided evidence sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets 
this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submits its offer of employment to the Beneficiary, a printout providing the 
Beneficiary's salary as of February 2018, his paystubs, 2017 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, 
and his 2017 Federal taxes. The record also includes geographical and position-appropriate 
compensation surveys, such as one from glassdoor.com titled "Software Engineer- Machine Leaming 
Salaries inl I" The evidence is sufficient to establish that the Beneficiary has commanded 
a high salary in relation to other software engineers. 15 Accordingly, we find the record establishes 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion and will withdraw the Director's findings to the contrary. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
14 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
15 We further note that the Petitioner submits evidence of the Beneficiary's remuneration in the form of held stock options, 
which we have reviewed but do not discuss here. 
12 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence establishing the Beneficiary's receipt of 
either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 
1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
13 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12854056 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a boxer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, the record did not establish that he has 
sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage of boxers at the top of 
the field. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a boxer with a long amateur and professional career in his native I l and more 
recently in the United States. The record shows that he has held the interim world champion title in 
the World Boxing Association (WBA ________ ~ class and the World Boxing Council 
(WBCi I but that in both cases the champion successfully defended his title by 
defeating the Petitioner. He was also a participant in the 2004 Olympic Games. 
The Petitioner claims that his interim world champion titles constituted one-time achievements as 
major, internationally recognized awards, and that in the alternative he also met the requirements for 
five of the ten evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). In his decision, the Director 
determined that the Petitioner had established his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award. 
On review, we agree with this conclusion. Despite this finding being sufficient for the Petitioner to 
meet the initial evidentiary requirement in the regulation, however, the Director went on to determine 
that the Petitioner also met two of the five evidentiary criteria that he claimed. Specifically, he found 
that the Petitioner had established his receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, 
and that material about him and his work had been published in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 1 However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet 
the evidentiary criteria pertaining to his membership in associations that require outstanding 
achievements, original athletic contributions of major significance, and serving in a leading or critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. 2 
The Director then conducted a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, the Director 
must examine and weigh all of the evidence in the record to determine whether the Petitioner has the 
high level of expertise required for this immigrant classification. Specifically, the Director must 
review the totality of the evidence, regardless of whether certain evidence was found to be sufficient 
to meet one of the evidentiary criteria, to determine whether the Petitioner has sustained national or 
1 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (iii), respectively. 
2 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), and (viii), respectively. 
2 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that in conducting the final merits determination, the Director ignored 
or failed to consider all of the evidence together in its totality. After review, we agree, and note that 
the Director's analysis includes statements which contradict his findings when considering the initial 
evidence requirements. For example, when discussing the Petitioner's receipt of a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Director focuses on evidence which does not meet that initial 
evidence requirement, including certificates from local organizations which congratulate him for his 
interim world championship title. 
Also, while the Director determined that the record included material published in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media that was about the Petitioner and his work as a boxer, 
the discussion of this evidence in the final merits determination mentions only that evidence which 
did not qualify under 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, this evidence is described as being posted 
on biogs and web portals, but the Director did not identify which materials are from these sources or 
why he considered them to have reduced evidentiary weight. We note that much of this evidence was 
posted on websites devoted to the sport of boxing. The Director also refers to "published material 
requirements" which are an element of the evidentiary criterion, not a final merits determination. 
Having already determined that sufficient evidence had been submitted to meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement, rather than conducting an analysis of the requirements for the ten evidentiary criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x), he should have considered whether the balance of the record 
established that the Petitioner has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim and is among 
the small percentage of boxers at the top of the field. 
In addition, in considering the Petitioner's ranking as a boxer, the Director referred to two reference 
letters which indicated that the Petitioner was ranked eighth by the WBA and fourteenth by the WBC 
at the time of filing, but concluded that the record did not support that he was "at the top of the list of 
professional boxers." However, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) does not require a petitioner 
to be at the top of his or her field, but among those in the very small percentage at the top. Further, 
the record contains evidence from both organizations regarding the Petitioner's ranking which the 
Director should have considered. 
We also note that the Director requested additional evidence that the Petitioner is coming to the United 
States to continue work as a boxer in compliance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5), which requires "clear 
evidence" and "detail[ ed] plans." In response, the Petitioner resubmitted a letter in which he states 
that he will "continue my endeavors" as a boxer. While the record also includes a management 
contract for the Petitioner, it expired more than one year prior to the filing of this petition. On remand, 
the Director should consider whether the record includes clear evidence that the Petitioner will 
continue his boxing career in the United States. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for further review and 
entry of a new decision. Because the Director has already determined that the Petitioner meets the 
initial evidentiary requirements, the new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the 
record evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his 
sustained national or international acclaim. It should also analyze whether the record demonstrates 
3 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage at the very top of his field of endeavor, that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation, and whether the 
Petitioner submitted detailed plans and clear evidence that he will continue his boxing career in the 
United States. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2024 In Re: 29769815 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a physiology researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish he satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b)(1)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award) or qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined the Petitioner fulfilled only two (judging under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi)). On appeal, the Petitioner 
maintains her qualification for an additional one ( original contributions under 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v)), discussed below. 1 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), USCIS determines whether the person 
has made original contributions in the field. 2 USCIS then determines whether the original 
contributions are of major significance to the field. 3 Examples of relevant evidence include, but are 
not limited to: published materials about the significance of the person's original work; testimonials, 
letters, and affidavits about the persons original work; documentation that the person's original work 
was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from 
the person's work or evidence of commercial use of the person's work. 4 
The Director discussed the Petitioner's submission ofreference letters, citations, publication history, 
conference presentations, and downloads. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest or address any 
of the Director's specific determinations relating to this evidence. Issues not raised on appeal are 
considered waived. See, e.g., O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5 (citing R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. at 658 
1 The Petitioner does not contest or address the Director's decision relating to her previous claim of meeting the awards 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We consider the Petitioner's prior eligibility claims not contested on appeal to 
be abandoned. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 T&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
( citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
2 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
3 Id. 
4 Id. 
2 
n.2). Instead, the Petitioner contends that the Director overlooked her eligibility based on her 
contributions in the development of the drug,I I which is her sole argument on appeal. 
The record contains a letter from Dr. A-G-who stated: 
[The Petitioner has identified a s ecific subset of h othalamic neurons that increase 
metabolic rate '------------------------------' This work is very important in treatin obese atients and was disseminated to the field 
through publication in . I 
can confirm that this research is the basis of one notable drug, called ~--~ I I, which was developed during my time as Head of Research at [R-P-]. 
Indeed, [the Petitioner's] research was implemented in our determination of what these 
signals are and where they act. Her work showed that I 
~-----------------~11, __~lhas been recently approved 
b the U.S. Food and Dru Administration for clinical use and is the first-in-class 
The Petitioner also submitted documentation about I such as "Highlights of Prescribing 
Information" and "Instructions for Use." In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots from 
geneticobesitynews.com regarding an update on ongoing clinical trials by R-P-relating to 
I l 
Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person's original work constitutes major, 
significant contributions to the field. 5 Evidence that the person's work was fonded, patented, or 
published, while potentially demonstrating the work's originality, will not necessarily establish, on its 
own, that the work is of major significance to the field. 6 For example, published research that has 
provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others working in the field, and 
documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others' work in that field, may be probative of 
the significance of the person's contributions to the field of endeavor. Similarly, evidence that the 
person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization 
may establish the significance of the person's original contribution to the field. 7 
Here, the Petitioner has not demonstrated how her research contributions resulting i~ Irises to 
an original contribution of major significance in the field. Although Dr. A-G-credits the Petitioner's 
research with the eventual development of the drug, I I the Petitioner did not show how 
I lhas impacted or influenced the field in a major way. The Petitioner presented evidence 
establishing the existence ofl !without demonstrating how the drug is viewed in the field as a 
majorly significant contribution. 
5 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
6 Id. 
7 Id. 
3 
I Likewise, Dr. A-G-did not farther elaborate and discuss the effects ofl For instance, while 
Dr. A-G-indicated the FD A's recent approval ofthe drug, the letter does not explain the extent, if any, 
of I I implementation, usage, or overall impact in treating obese patients. Similarly, as 
indicated above, the geneticobesitynews.com screenshots report on the ongoing clinical trials ofIrather than showing how the field views the research or drug as already being significantly 
important in a major way. Without farther information, the Petitioner has not shown how the 
application of her research with I lresulted in a contribution of major significance in the field. 
Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person's 
contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of 
major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed 
significance. 8 Submitted letters should specifically describe the person's contribution and its 
significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer's knowledge and expertise. 9 
In this case, the letter lacks specific, detailed information explaining how the Petitioner's research 
involving! Icaused an original contribution of major significance in the field. USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because she did not satisfy the original contributions category, the Petitioner did not meet the initial 
evidentiary requirement of at least three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Therefore, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
Accordingly, we reserve this issue. 10 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Matter ofPrice, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021), aff'd, 2023 WL 
1156801 (D.C. Cir. Jan. 31, 2023) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small 
percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 
l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding 
denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of 
8 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l ). 
9 Id. 
10 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies are not required to make "purely advisory findings" 
on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) 
( declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where applicants do not otherwise meet their burden of proof). 
4 
gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win 
this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably 
one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball 
coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of her work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence establishing the Petitioner among the 
upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2024 In Re: 29886170 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and seven subsequent motions. The matter is again 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . We do not require the evidence of a "new fact" to have been previously unavailable or 
undiscoverable . Instead, "new facts" are facts that are relevant to the issue(s) raised on motion and 
that have not been previously submitted in the proceeding , which includes the original petition. 
Reasserting previously stated facts or resubmitting previously provided evidence does not constitute 
"new facts." 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. 1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested 
immigration benefit. 
As we have stated in our prior decisions, motions for the reopening or reconsideration of immigration 
proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as petitions for rehearing and motions for a new trial 
1 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asserts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
on the basis of newly discovered evidence. See INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992)( citing INS 
v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." INS 
v. Abudu, 485 U.S. at 110. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the July 19, 2023, dismissal 
of the Petitioner's seventh motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier denial, 
and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages of the 
proceeding. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement, and no other evidence, asserting his eligibility for first 
preference classification as a martial artist of extraordinary ability. In his statement, the Petitioner 
asserts that, based on our prior decisions in these proceedings, we "are not willing to recognize 
Kickboxing and Muay Thai as a part of Martial Arts Sports." The Petitioner goes on to provide 
information and history for both sports and requests that we reconsider his awards. Finally, he states 
that a letter of support that he previously submitted misrepresented his participation in an event as a 
referee rather than a judge due to an error in translation. The Petitioner does not specifically identify 
which support letter he is referencing, nor does he provide a new translation to correct the alleged 
error. The Petitioner's statement generally asserts his eligibility for an extraordinary ability visa, but 
does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy error in our July 19, 2023, decision. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Therefore, we will dismiss his motion to reopen because he has not provided documentary evidence 
of new facts related to our prior decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). In addition, we will dismiss the 
Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we erred in our July 19, 2023, 
decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter ofCerna, 20 
l&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 5, 2024 In Re: 28282807 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in the veterinary science field, seeks classification under the employment­
based, first-preference (EB-1) immigrant visa category as a noncitizen with "extraordinary ability." 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . 
Petitioners in this category may ultimately apply for U.S. permanent residence if they demonstrate 
"sustained national or international acclaim" and document recognition of their achievements in their 
fields of expertise. Id. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. The Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met one of ten initial evidentiary requirements -two less than needed to warrant a final 
merits determination. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he met six other evidentiary criteria. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating eligibility for the requested benefit by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). 
Exercising de novo appellate review, see Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 
2015), we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the requisite number of 
evidentiary criteria. We will therefore dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability, a petitioner must demonstrate that: 
• They have "extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics;" 
• They seek to continue work in their field of expertise in the United States; and 
• Their work would substantially benefit the country. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" means a level of expertise commensurate with "one of that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Evidence 
of extraordinary ability must demonstrate a noncitizen's receipt of either "a major, international 
recognized award" or satisfaction of at least three of ten lesser evidentiary standards. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 1 
If a petitioner meets either of the evidentiary requirements discussed above, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) must then make a final merits determination to find whether the record, 
as a whole, establishes sustained national or international acclaim and recognized achievements 
placing the noncitizen among the small percentage at the very top of their field. See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 (9th Cir. 2010) (requiring a two-part analysis ofextraordinary ability). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, a Nepali native and citizen, earned a bachelor's degree in 
veterinary science and animal husbandry in his home country in 2016 and a master's degree in animal 
nutrition in the United Kingdom in 2019. He began his research career while 
an undergraduate. Peer-
reviewed journals published his papers on detecting and controlling the avian flu virus in the I I I Iof Nepal and the handwashing habits ofresidents in the same area. A veterinary journal also 
published his graduate thesis on the effect of polyphenol on the growth and meat quality of broiler 
chickens. Subjects of the Petitioner's other published research articles include: the effect of organic 
acids in chicken feed; viral disease and bacterial infection in poultry; and dietary fiber in poultry 
nutrition. 
The Petitioner currently works as an assistant adjunct professor at a Nepali college. He stated that he 
wants to come to the United States to continue research in his field, specifically in the area ofveterinary 
public health. He said he may investigate how to reduce coronavirus transmission in poultry by 
modifying the fowls' diets. 
The Petitioner has neither claimed nor demonstrated his receipt of a major, international recognized 
award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). He must therefore meet at least three of ten lesser evidentiary 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i-x). 
The record supports the Director's finding that the Petitioner submitted evidence of his authorship of 
scholarly articles in the veterinary science field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The Petitioner 
contends that he also provided published material about himself and his work in the field and evidence 
of: his receipt of prizes or awards; his membership in associations requiring outstanding achievement; 
his participation as a judge of others' work; his original contributions of major significance; and his 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations. See 8 C .F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (viii). 
A. Receipt of Lesser Prizes or Awards 
This criterion requires "[ d]ocumentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). When 
1 If the standards do not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation, the noncitizen may submit comparable evidence to 
establish eligibility. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
adjudicating under this requirement, USCIS should first determine if a noncitizen -as opposed, for 
example, to their employer -received a prize or award. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l), www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. If so, the Agency should then determine whether the 
award is nationally or internationally recognized and was issued for excellence in the endeavor's field. 
Id. To determine whether a petitioner received an award for excellence in their field, USCIS should 
consider: the criteria used to grant the award; its national or international significance in the field; the 
number of awardees; and any limitations on competitors. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he received: a foll scholarship to graduate school in 2018; a 
2014 award to participate in wildlife training from thd I 
a 2016 travel grant to attend veterinary training; another 2016 travel grant to present his research on 
the avian flu virus at the I IAnnual Meeting; a ~certificate of 
excellence _________for a research article in the immunology, disease, and health category; and a 20221 I 
.__ ____, for his research on polyphenol and its effect on Nepali livestock. 2 
The record supports the Director's findings that the Petitioner submitted insufficient evidence that his 
awards garnered national or international recognition, or that he received them for excellence in his 
field. Copies of website and other Internet information from the awarding organizations accompanies 
some of his awards. But, while these organizations may have national or international membership, 
the record lacks sufficient evidence of the awards' national or international recognition beyond 
organization members. See, e.g., Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 182 (D.N.J. 2021) ("[I]t 
is reasonable to find that evidence solely from the awarding organization itself may be insufficient if 
it does not show 'how a larger audience viewed [the] awards."') ( citation omitted). 
Also, because the Petitioner's awards honored only students and excluded more educated and 
experienced competitors in the field, the prizes do not establish their issuance for "excellence in the 
field." See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l); Dr. Jafar Jafarov v. USCIS, 23 Civ. 3372 (PAE), 
2024 WL 69056, *6 (S.D.N.Y. Jan. 5, 2024) (finding that "limitations on competitors" constitute 
factors in determining "excellence in the field" under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director "concluded that scientific works of college and 
graduate level students are minor as compared to [those of] the established professionals and hence, 
underrated awards that [I] received through competition at the '--------------~ Annual meeting in 2016." 
We agree that the Director found the Petitioner's student awards insufficient to demonstrate 
"excellence in the field." But, as previously discussed, USCIS policy and case law support the 
Director's findings. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l); Dr. Jafar Jafarov, 2024 WL 69056 at 
*6. Thus, the Director appropriately weighed the Petitioner's student awards. 
2 The Petitioner also submitted evidence that he won awards at a film festival in 2021 and 2022 for best educational short 
movie and best motivational story/script. As the record does not demonstrate the awards' relationship to the Petitioner's 
field of veterinary science, we will not consider those awards or their supporting evidence. His appeal also does not 
mention these awards. 
3 
The Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated his receipt of nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in his field. We will therefore affirm the Director's finding under this 
criterion. 
B. Membership in Associations Requiring Outstanding Achievement 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[d]ocumentation of the alien's membership in 
associations in the field for which classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of 
their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). A membership generally does not call for outstanding achievements if it 
solely requires: a level of education or years of experience in a particular field; payment of a fee or 
subscription to an association's publications; or employment in a certain occupation, as with a union 
or guild membership. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he is: a general and specialist member ofthe....l ______ _. 
'-----.-...i...::a;_;:l..:.:if::..::e..:.:ti;:;:,me member of the I Ian expert roster member 
of the ,_______, and a lifetime member of the I I 
As the Director found, except for evidence from the. ___________ _, the record does not 
demonstrate that membership in these organizations requires outstanding achievements of their 
members or judgments by recognized national or international experts in their fields. Also, evidence 
does not establish that the alumni association limits its memberships to those in the Petitioner's field 
of veterinary science. 
Regarding the evidence from the veterinary council, the Petitioner submitted a letter from the council's 
acting registrar. The letter states that the council committee that assesses eligibility for specialist 
membership consists of "national experts in [the] veterinary field," including: a vice president; one 
council member; two specialist veterinary doctors; and a registrar. The letter states that specialist 
members must have made "scholarly and outstanding contribution[ s ]" after earning master's, doctoral, 
or equivalent degrees in the field. The letter indicates that, since the council's establishment in 1999, 
the Petitioner was the 60th of 166 specialist members. 
The Director found that, contrary to the request for additional information that she issued, the 
Petitioner did not provide copies of the veterinary council's bylaws. The Director stated that "[t]he 
bylaws would not only add credence that such a council truly exists but may have supported what is 
outlined in the letter." On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the letter already states the council's 
bylaws regarding the awarding of specialist memberships. 
We will accept that the veterinary council letter sufficiently demonstrates the council's existence. 3 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(14) (requiring a petition's denial for omission of requested evidence only if 
the evidence "precludes a material line of inquiry"). The record, however, supports the Director's 
finding that the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his specialist membership in the council stems from 
outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. The council's 
letter states that "national experts in [the] veterinary field" select specialist members based on 
3 Online information also confirms the council's existence. See'-----------------' 
4 
"scholarly and outstanding contribution[s]" in the field. But the letter does not indicate whether the 
council's method ofawarding specialist memberships, as described in the February 2023 letter, applied 
at the time the Petitioner received his specialist membership, which by-laws from that period might 
have established. 
Further, the council's letter states: "Relevant evidence like being a trainer in national and international 
conference, workshop, seminar, award, and research publication can be submitted as an initial 
application for the specialist registration ." The letter suggests that a Nepali veterinarian could obtain 
an initial specialist membership in the council by merely publishing research or training others at a 
conference, workshop, or seminar in the field. The record does not establish that those achievements 
need be "outstanding ." See Matter ofHo, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591 (BIA 1988) (requiring a petitioner 
to resolve inconsistencies of record with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth 
lies). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his membership in associations in his 
field requiring outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields. We therefore affirm the Director's finding under 
this evidentiary requirement. 
C. Published Material About the Petitioner 
This criterion requires "[p ]ublished material about the alien in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). The evidence must include the material's title, date, and author, and any 
necessary translation. Id. 
When adjudicating this requirement, USCIS should first determine whether published material relates 
to the noncitizen and their specific work in their field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). The Agency should then determine whether the publication qualifies as a professional, 
major trade, or major media publication. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies of2018 online articles regarding his graduate school scholarship. The 
copies indicate that the Internet sites of a Nepali English-language daily newspaper and a Nepali 
newsmagazine published the articles. As the online sites are not "professional or major trade 
publications," the Petitioner must demonstrate that the sites constitute "other major media." He did 
not, however, submit viewership statistics for the sites and their competitors to show that the sites 
constitute major media. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l) ("In evaluating whether a submitted 
publication is a professional publication , major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors 
include ... the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other 
major media)." Also, the articles report only the Petitioner 's name, school, field of study, and 
scholarship receipt. Thus, they do not discuss him and his work substantially enough to meet this 
criterion. Id. (stating that published material covering a broader topic may be considered material 
about the person relating to their work if the material "includes a substantial discussion of the person's 
work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the work") ( emphasis added). 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted a copy of a 2016 media release from the c=J, announcing that he and 
other students won travel grant awards. The copy shows that an online news source for the poultry 
industry published the release. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the release meets this 
evidentiary criterion. But, like the scholarship articles, the published release does not discuss the 
Petitioner and his work substantially enough to meet this requirement. See 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted additional information about the0 awards and others he received. But 
the record does not indicate if or where the information was published to determine whether it was a 
professional, trade, or major media source. Also, some of the material does not discuss the Petitioner 
or his work. 
The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish published material about himself in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media relating to his field. We will therefore 
affirm the Director's decision under this criterion. 
D. Participation as a Judge of Others' Work 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of the alien's participation, either 
individually or on a panel, as a judge ofthe work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification 
for which classification is sought." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). A petitioner must show not only that 
they were invited to judge the work of others, but also that they actually participated in the judging. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he: helped rewrite and update a course syllabus about the 
vocation of "poultry farm worker;" reviewed research proposals and research articles on agriculture 
and animal science by Nepali undergraduate students; and judged a research article writing 
competition on poultry disease and health. 
The Director questioned the authenticity of a letter from a deputy director of theI I The letter thanks the~P-e-ti-ti-on_e_r_fi_o_r_h-is~ 
participation in developing the poultry farm worker curriculum in 2022. Noting that the letter bears a 
date in 2023, the Director found that the document was "simply prepared [after the fact] as an attempt 
to meet this criterion." On appeal, the Petitioner notes that a copy of the 2022 curriculum identifies 
his contribution as a "subject specialist" to the program's development. 
But we need not decide the validity of the I I letter as the evidence regardless would not meet 
this criterion. Even assuming the Petitioner helped rewrite the poultry farm worker curriculum as the 
letter states, the record does not demonstrate that his activities included judging others' work. Also, 
evidence of the Petitioner's review of undergraduate research proposals and research articles does not 
establish him as a judge of others' work. 
But a letter from a coordinator/director of a Nepali non-profit veterinary and agricultural service 
satisfies this criterion. The letter states that, as part of panels in 2021 and 2022, the Petitioner judged 
research articles by undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral students in his field. As the record lacks 
any proof to the contrary, a preponderance of the evidence demonstrates the Petitioner's participation 
6 
as a judge of others' work in his field. We will therefore withdraw the Director's contrary decision 
under this criterion. 
E. Original Contributions of Major Significance 
To meet this requirement, a petitioner must submit "[e]vidence of the alien's original scientific, 
scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field." 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). USCIS should first determine whether a noncitizen has made original 
contributions in their field. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.(2)(B)(l). If so, the Agency should then 
determine whether any of them are of "major significance." Id. 
Evidence of significance may include proof that a noncitizen's published research has provoked 
widespread commentary from others in the field, or documentation that the research received a high 
number of citations compared to others' work in the field. Id. Detailed letters from experts in a field 
explaining the nature and significance of a noncitizen's contributions may also aid in evaluating 
contributions' importance, "particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the 
claimed significance." Id. 
The Petitioner submitted copies ofhis published research articles and letters from university professors 
discussing his work. For example, a U.S. Fulbright scholar/animal nutrition professor stated that the 
Petitioner "has paved the pathway for the upgrading and commercialization of novel [poultry] feed 
chemicals like organic acid and polyphenol in a dose-dependent manner." Also, a coordinator of the 
post graduate school at a Nepali university, who advised the Petitioner on his undergraduate research, 
stated that the Petitioner's "work has already impacted this area and holds many future promises." 
The letters, however, do not sufficiently detail the impact of the Petitioner's work on the field or its 
purported future benefits. The letters indicate that he was the first researcher to study the effect of 
polyphenol in poultry feed. But the letters do not sufficiently explain how his research has "major 
significance" in his field. See Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (for a petitioner's 
contributions to be "ofmajor significance," evidence must demonstrate that their work has been widely 
adopted or replicated by industry actors unaffiliated with them). The record also lacks sufficient 
documentation corroborating the claimed significance and purported future benefits of the research. 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner also submitted a letter from the 
science/commercialization manager of a company with a patented compound that the Petitioner 
studied in his polyphenol research. The letter states that the Petitioner's research made a "great 
contribution on our understanding of polyphenol to be used for commercial purposes in [the] 
bioscience industry." Like the other letters, however, the company's letter does not sufficiently detail 
the impact of the Petitioner's research, how it increased the company's understanding of polyphenol, 
or explain its "major significance" in the field. Also, as the Director found, the letter shows the 
significance of the Petitioner's research to the company more than to his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision misidentifies him as an employee of 
the company. He states that his research "was independent, and purely based on scientific merit." He 
states that the company's letter explains that his research aided the firm's development of its patented 
product. 
7 
To the extent the Director misstated the Petitioner's relationship with the company, the error does not 
affect the underlying conclusion that he has not sufficiently documented an original contribution of 
major importance in his field. See generally Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) 
( citations omitted) ( describing an error that does not prejudice a noncitizen as harmless). 
The record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's research has provoked widespread commentary 
from others in the field or received a high number of citations compared to others in the field. Thus, 
we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not demonstrated original contributions of major 
significance in his field. 
F. Performance in a Leading or Critical Role 
This criterion requires "[ e ]vidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
USCIS should first determine whether a petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role for an 
organization, establishment, division, or department. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual 
F.(2)(B)(l). A leading role means that a petitioner is (or was) a leader within the organization, 
establishment, division, or department. Id. In contrast, a critical role means a noncitizen contributed 
in a significantly important way to the activities of the organization, establishment, division, or 
department. Id. 
USCIS should next determine whether the organization, establishment, division, or department has a 
distinguished reputation. Id. Factors may include: an organization's relative size or longevity; the 
scale of its customer base, or relevant media coverage of it. Id. 
The Petitioner submitted letters stating that he: served as a university ambassador to the D from 
2015 to 2016; helped edit and draft the Nepali national vocational training curriculum from 2021 to 
2022 for the I I: reviewed undergraduate research proposals and projects at a Nepali university; 
and trained farmers and served as a key speaker for a Nepali nonprofit veterinary and agriculture 
service. 
As the Director found, however, the letters lack sufficient details to demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
roles with the organizations were leading or critical. The record also lacks sufficient evidence that the 
organizations have distinguished reputations. 
In his RFE response, the Petitioner submitted the letter from the science/commercialization manager 
of the company with the patented compound studied by the Petitioner. But this letter also lacks 
sufficient details to demonstrate his service in a leading or critical role for the company or the firm's 
purported distinguished reputation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the company's letter demonstrates the firm's distinguished 
reputation by stating that the company has international operations and multiple patents on several 
chemical compounds in the nutritional science field. But the letter does not provide enough details 
about the company's size, longevity, customer base, or media coverage to demonstrate its purported 
distinguished reputation. Also, as previously indicated, the record does not sufficiently explain how 
the Petitioner served in a leading or critical role for the company. 
8 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence of his participation in a leading or critical role for an 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. We will therefore affirm the Director's 
decision under this criterion. 
G. Final Merits Determination 
On appeal, the Petitioner demonstrated that he submitted evidence of his participation as a judge of 
others' work in his field. But he has met only two of the ten initial evidentiary requirements -one less 
than needed to obtain a final merits determination. Thus, we need not make a final determination in 
this matter. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies need not make 
"purely advisory findings" on issues unnecessary to their ultimate decisions); see also Matter ofL-A­
C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternate issues on appeal where a 
respondent in removal proceedings did not otherwise qualify for relief). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not met the requisite number of initial evidentiary requirements for classification 
as a noncitizen with extraordinary ability. We will therefore affirm the petition's denial. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7468977 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 6, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soil scientist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and affirmed the denial after granting 
the Petitioner's subsequent motion to reopen and considering new evidence. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner met only one of the three initial evidentiary criteria for the requested classification, 
of which she must satisfy at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not acknowledge or address the grounds for denial of the petition, or 
contend that the petition was denied based on any error on the part of the Director. Rather, the 
Petitioner submits a brief and new evidence "requesting new consideration for [the Petitioner] as an 
outstanding researcher, meeting the criteria set forth in ... 8 CFR 204.5(i)." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) states, in pertinent part that "[a]n officer to whom an appeal 
is taken shall summarily dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any 
erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact for the appeal." 
Upon review, the Petitioner has not identified an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact on 
the part of the Director as a basis for the appeal. Therefore, the appeal will be summarily dismissed. 
Further, we note that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) will only consider the visa 
classification that the Petitioner annotates on the petition. The Ninth Circuit has determined that once 
USCIS concludes that a foreign national is not eligible for the specifically requested classification, the 
agency is not required to consider, sua sponte, whether they are eligible for an alternate classification . 
Brazil Quality Stones, Inc., v. Chertoff, 286 Fed. Appx. 963, 2008 WL 2743927 (9th Cir. July 10, 
2008). We will not grant the Petitioner's request that we consider new evidence submitted under an 
alternate immigrant classification on appeal. Such classification can only be sought through a separate 
immigrant petition. 1 
ORDER: The appeal is summarily dismissed. 
1 The record reflects that the Petitioner's employer filed a Form 1-140 seeking to classify her as an outstanding professor 
or researcher under section 203(b )(1 )(B) of the Act on July 23, 2019. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 4729139 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 6, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion model, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not 
satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), which include 
documentation of a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award) or 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled one of 
the initial evidentiary criteria, artistic display of his work at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), but did not 
meet any of the other criteria. 
The Petitioner's submission on appeal consists of a Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, and 
additional evidence. On the Form I-290B the Petitioner marked Box l(b) in Part 2, indicating that he 
would submit a brief and/or additional evidence to this office within 30 calendar days of filing the 
appeal. The record reflects that the Petitioner has not submitted a brief or any additional evidence 
since filing the appeal more than 11 months prior. Accordingly, the record will be considered complete 
as presently constituted . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will summarily dismiss the appeal. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) provides, in pertinent part, that we "shall summarily 
dismiss any appeal when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of 
law or statement of fact for the appeal." The Petitioner has not specifically identified any erroneous 
conclusion of law or statement of fact as a basis for the appeal. The Petitioner has not provided a brief 
in support of the appeal. Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide with its appeal a separate statement 
regarding the basis of the appeal, as instructed at Part 3 of the Form I-290B. Rather, in Part 7of the 
form, the Petitioner lists the evidence provided in exhibits A-1, B-1, and C-1 of the appeal. A 
petitioner filing an appeal is required to provide a statement that specifically identifies an erroneous 
conclusion of law or fact in the decision being appealed. Here, the Petitioner has made no reference 
or objection to the specific findings set forth in the Director's previous decision. 
We acknowledge that the Petitioner provides a~ll!..l,=l..!.....!,"-L!..l~=....l.l'., He submits 
documentation regarding his participation in thet-----------.-,..i-::..==-===~"--.---_____.2018 
in Poland, including his entry form, a letter from.__ _____ __. o ~-----~-onfirming the 
Petitioner will represent Venezuela in the event, a press release from the event's producer,~ 
screenshots from various websites reporting on the pageant. He also includes an invitation to a L_J 
2018 event inl I hosted by the I I Influencer Program. Further, he provides 
screenshots from various websites showing that in 2018 he participated in the I I I I and the~---------~ Closing Gala. However, the aforementioned evidence 
relates to events occurring after the filing of the petition on April 7, 2017. The Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing 
and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Moreover, this evidence does not 
specifically address the regulatory criteria, and does not explain and establish how the Director erred 
in determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy the regulatory requirement of three types of evidence. 
As the Petitioner has not identified any flawed conclusion of law or statement of fact for appeal, we 
will summarily dismiss the appeal pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24218383 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 06, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner does not argue and has not established that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Director found the Petitioner met one evidentiary criterion, that 
of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), related to the foreign national's performance in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that he meets additional evidentiary criteria, which we analyze below. Additionally, for the 
reasons described below, we withdraw the Director's finding that the Petitioner has established 
eligibility under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and instead conclude that he has not established eligibility 
under any criteria. While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed 
and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The Petitioner 
provided evidence that he received a 201 7 first place award in the category of "news photography" 
from the I The Director notified the Petitioner in a request 
for evidence (RFE) that the record did not sufficiently demonstrate how thel I award is nationally 
or internationally recognized or that the award is given for excellence in the Petitioner's field of 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
endeavor. In response, the Petitioner provided the contest rules and entry requirements, information 
about the award, printouts of various media outlets' announcement of the winners, and readership 
figures of the media outlets. Nevertheless, the Director determined that the Petitioner had not 
established the national or international recognition of the I I award. We agree. 
As the Director noted, multiple media printouts refer to the competition as "statewide." While the 
various media that announced past winners may have national or international readership, the evidence 
provided does not sufficiently demonstrate that the media announced! I winners beyond state or 
local editions of the media. While we understand the Petitioner's assertion that media outlets such as 
USA Today announced thel !winners, the evidence reflects these announcements may have been 
local news, as evidenced by USA Today's online article within the I I Florida! I 
and references to the Florida re ional USA Toda Network. Other media announcin I I winners 
include the 
Although the parent companies of these local newspapers, or even the local 
newspapers themselves, may have national or international readership, this is insufficient to support a 
finding that the laward is a nationally or internationally recognized award. To further illustrate, 
the Petitioner provided evidence of the contest rules, which state that contest submissions must have 
appeared "in a daily newspaper in Florida ... and must have been the work of staff members of the 
newspaper or Florida-based staff members of a news organization." This supports a conclusion that 
thel I awards are recognized locally or statewide, rather than nationally or internationally. 
On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that awards under this category must be nationally or 
internationally recognized, not nationally or internationally distributed. While we acknowledge the 
distinction, the evidence provided nevertheless does not support a finding that thel laward is 
nationally or internationally recognized. Therefore, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under 
this criterion. 2 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 3 The Petitioner asserted that I I 
published materials about him. 
Thel 2021 I I article contains an interview conducted with the Petitioner. 
Although this article is about the Petitioner's photographs, the record contains little to no evidence to 
support a finding that I lis a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
Rather, the evidence demonstrates that is an individual's online blog, not a major 
2 The evidence suggests that thee=] award may be given for a level of achievement in journalism, which differs from 
the Petitioner's field of claimed extraordinary ability (photography). While we need not discuss this issue, as the evidence 
does not support a finding of the national or international recognition of the a award, we conclude that for this 
additional reason, the award does not support the Petitioner's eligibility under this criterion. 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
3 
medium. In addition, the evidence does not show that I lis a professional publication or 
a major trade (photography) publication. The I I printout evidences a 2016 
announcement that the Petitioner will provide photographic news coverage of the I I I soccer event. Although the announcement introduces the Petitioner as the photographer 
selected for the soccer games, the evidence does not sufficiently establish that the article is about the 
Petitioner. Rather, the announcement appears to be for the purpose of generating excitement at the 
historic participation of a particular team in the games. Although the I article contains three questions for the Petitioner and his responses to those questions 
in an interview-style format, the article is undated and does not establish eligibility at the time of 
filing. 4 Similar to I I the record contains little to no supporting evidence to establish that I I are professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 5 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the.field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
In order to demonstrate eligibility for this criterion, a petitioner must show that his work was on 
display, and that the venues were artistic exhibitions or showcases. By regulation, the exhibition or 
showcase must have been "artistic."6 
We acknowledge that online and print media outlets published the Petitioner's photographs; however, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that any of the media featuring his photographs were "artistic" 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that self-publishing 
a textbook, lecturing at a community college, and presenting at conferences were not displays at artistic 
exhibitions or showcases consistent with the relevant regulatory language). The publication of his 
photographs in the media are the result of newsworthy events and not necessarily because of the artistic 
nature of the photograph or the event. In other words, the record reflects that the media feature his 
photographs because he covers particular events. On appeal, the Petitioner emphasizes that the media 
featuring the Petitioner's work are major publications. While we acknowledge this assertion, the 
criterion here involves artistic exhibitions or showcases, not major publications. The Petitioner has not 
presented evidence that his photographs appeared in venues such as a gallery, museum, or other artistic 
context. Accordingly, the evidence does not support eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role.for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.FR. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner must establish that he has performed in a leading or critical role. For a "leading" role, 
we consider evidence establishing that a petitioner is ( or was) a leader within the organization or 
4 Tt is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 25 T&N Dec. 799, 806 ( AAO 2012). The Petitioner did not include the date of 
the material. The inclusion of the title, date, and author of the material is not optional but a regulatory requirement. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, the English translation of this article contains the date December 12, 2021, 
which is after the filing date of the petition. 
5 Additionally, parts of the printouts appear to be untranslated and are therefore not in accordance with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b )(3). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
4 
establishment. 7 For a "critical" role, we look to evidence that establishes a petitioner has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. 8 While the Director determined that the Petitioner established eligibility under this criterion, 
for the reasons below, we withdraw that finding. 
The Petitioner asserted that: 
As a lead Photographer, [the Petitioner] is responsible for the overall look and success 
of these publications as he oversees and coordinates all aspects of the photography for 
the particular publication; ensuring that it is perfect for audiences and consumers to 
enjoy. Therefore, each time [the Petitioner] works to produce quality photographs for 
these major media establishments, he is performing in a leading and critical role for 
them as the success and attraction of the publications ultimately depend on the quality 
and selection of his work. ... Throughout his career, he has served in leadership 
positions for major organizations responsible for overseeing the creation of 
photographic imagery and content for their publications. 
( emphasis removed . Althou h the Petitioner provided evidence that his photographs appeared in 
media, such as the he has not provided evidence that he served in a leading or critical 
role within the or other organizations. The letters froml I 
I I current and former photojournalists with the respectively, state that the 
Petitioner served as an intern at thel IThe letters also state that the Petitioner serves as 
a contract photographer for __________ While the Petitioner did not provide 
information on what a contract photographer is or does, it appears as though he may work for a third­
party that contracts his photography services out to various media, of which I I may 
be one. While both letters praise the Petitioner's talents and abilities, neither letter provides sufficient 
detail concerning how the Petitioner's role was leading or critical. 
Although the Petitioner may assert that photographers in general are critical to the functioning of 
media, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented how his role within the media organizations was 
leading or critical. 9 The Petitioner asserted that "the success and attraction of the publications 
ultimately depend on the quality and selection of his work;" however, he has not provided sufficient 
evidence to substantiate this claim. He has not provided evidence that, for instance, he is the only 
photographer at the events and the only source of photographs for a particular medium. Nor has he 
offered sufficient evidence to demonstrate, for example, that people subscribe to and read the media 
publications due to his photographs, as opposed to the written content of the publications. 
The record contains a list of images the Petitioner purportedly submitted to numerous different media 
sources. The Petitioner provided little explanation for the significance and evidentiary relevance of 
this list. We cannot, for example, determine whether the list: (1) suggests that the Petitioner works 
for a third-party that contracts with media organizations for photographic coverage services; 
(2) demonstrates that the Petitioner attends events to take photographs, but the media may or may not 
7 See generally USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
8 Id. 
9 Here, it "is not the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is ( or was) critical." Id. 
5 
select the Petitioner's photographs; (3) shows that the Petitioner works for one media organization, 
such as I I which may sell the Petitioner's photographs to other media outlets; or 
(4) demonstrates that the Petitioner works for each individual media outlet listed. In addition, the 
evidence does not support the Petitioner's assertion that he "oversees and coordinates all aspects of 
the photography for the particular publication" and "served in leadership positions for major 
organizations." Although the Petitioner provided evidence that his photographs appeared in media, 
he has not provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that he performed in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments.10 
B. Comparable Evidence 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not 
readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation. 11 Here, we must consider whether the regulatory criteria 
are readily applicable to the Petitioner's occupation and, if not, whether the evidence provided is truly 
comparable to the criteria listed in that regulation.12 A petitioner should explain why he has not 
submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
as well as why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 13 General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an 
occupation are not probative and should be discounted. 14 
Here, the Petitioner did not show why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria. In 
fact, the Petitioner asserted that he has already established eligibility under four criteria, that of 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), (vii), and (viii), which we analyzed above. Simply because the 
Petitioner's evidence does not establish eligibility under one or more criteria does not mean that the 
criteria are not readily applicable to the photographer occupation. Nevertheless, because the Director's 
explanation regarding comparable evidence is both confusing and contradictory, we provide the below 
analysis. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the Petitioner's "authorship of scholarly articles 
in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media."15 In general, the 
article(s) should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, 
or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed.16 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.17 
10 Because the evidence does not support a finding that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments, we need not analyze whether the organizations or establishments have distinguished 
reputations. 
11 See generally USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
12 Id. 
13 Id. 
14 Id. 
15 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
16 Id. 
17 Id. 
6 
Here, the Petitioner has not claimed, nor submitted, evidence that he has written any articles. Rather, 
he stated that he "is not placed in a position where he has the opportunity to teach about photography 
via a scholarly article or text." Instead, the Petitioner submitted evidence that his photographs 
appeared in various media publications and asserted that the wide readership of the media is 
comparable evidence to the authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Specifically, he stated that he "communicates with his audience 
and transmits information in an even more effective way than he would if he were drafting articles .. ,, 
Although the Petitioner could have written scholarly articles about photography techniques or cameras 
and specifically acknowledges that "photographers can publish scholarly articles," he requested that 
we accept comparable evidence instead. While we do not doubt the legitimacy and power of visual 
communication, this criterion pertains to the authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. As "photographers can publish scholarly articles," he has not 
demonstrated that this criterion does not readily apply to him. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not 
established how the evidence he provided is comparable. 18 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner asserts the readership figures of the media in which his images are published is comparable 
evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). Specifically, he explained that "his success is measured in terms 
ofreadership figures and his "broadcasts" are exhibited to an audience who sees his work on various print 
and digital media ... success as a news photographer lies in the amount of people his work is exposed to 
.... " While we acknowledge this argument, the "commercial successes" criterion does not refer to 
readership figures or the number of people exposed to his work.19 Rather, criterion (x) concerns the 
commercial success of projects in which the individual participated, documented by evidence such as 
box office receipts for films or record sales. Even if we view his photographs as performing arts 
projects, readership figures would not establish commercial success. The purchase price of the 
copyrights to specific photographs could be more probative evidence of "commercial successes," but 
even this would not constitute "box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales" as 
the regulation requires. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established how the evidence he provided 
is comparable. 
18 Although we do not discuss the merits of the "comparable" evidence, we note that even ifwe considered it, the Petitioner 
has not established how it would meet the definition of scholarly. The media publications cover sports, local news, and 
breaking news, among other topics. The general public is the intended audience of the articles and images in the media. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that his work is scholarly in nature, as news articles for general public 
consumption do not necessarily demonstrate that the intended audience is learned on a particular topic, let alone 
photography specifically. 
19 For instance, the Petitioner offered little evidence to establish that the Petitioner's specific photographic contributions 
drive the overall readership figures for a particular medium, as opposed to the written content or other photos within a 
medium driving the readership figures. To further illustrate, the commercial success of, or widespread attendance at, an 
event, such as the Kentucky Derby or the Orange Bowl, does not have any apparent connection to the photographers hired 
to cover the event. 
7 
We conclude the Petitioner has not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three 
criteria. His assertions that he has already established eligibility under four criteria reinforce this 
conclusion. Simply because the Petitioner's evidence does not establish eligibility under one or more 
criteria does not mean that the criteria are not readily applicable to the photographer occupation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement award 
or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we reviewed 
the record and conclude that, in the aggregate, it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 06, 2024 In Re: 29096057 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professor of management information systems, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IL ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a tenure-track assistant professor and researcher in the field of management 
information systems. She intends to continue teaching in the United States and researching the impact 
of online platforms' technology policies on businesses and society. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the criteria she claimed to have satisfied: 
participation as a judge of the work of others in her field and authorship of scholarly articles in her 
field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi). The record supports this determination . The Director 
concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not establish that she met the criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) or (v). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets these criteria, and 
she contends that the Director disregarded certain evidence and erroneously applied relevant law and 
USCIS policies in concluding otherwise. Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has also met 
the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner has submitted transcripts and articles showing that she has been interviewed and her 
work has been discussed in major technology publications, such as W-and G-, as well as in major 
media, including National Public Radio (NPR). We note that, in denying the petition, the Director 
stated that published material must not simply be about the results of the Petitioner ' s research, but 
about the petitioner herself, stating that her accomplishments in the wider field should be the focal 
point of that material. In contrast, the USCIS policy manual advises that to meet the plain language 
of this criterion "published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the 
field, not just about the person's employer and the employer's work or another organization and that 
organization's work." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(8)(1), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. We conclude the Director imposed a novel substantive 
requirement in his analysis of whether the Petitioner met this criterion by providing a definition of 
"about" that is not found in the plain language of the regulation or in policy. USCIS may not utilize 
novel substantive or evidentiary requirements beyond those set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . See 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1221. The Director should avoid imposing novel requirements when reviewing 
the Petitioner's evidence on remand. 
2 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has established her qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(iv), and (vi), we will withdraw the Director's denial of the petition and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, her sustained 
national or international acclaim, her status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF 1-K­
' DATE: FEB. 7, 2019 
Ap PEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140,.IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
i 
The Petition.er, an architect, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
Se:e Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8U.S.C.§11'53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
! ' 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied ti1e petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
Se~ 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). -- . 
Ori appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence, claiming that he meets four of the ten criteria 
un.rer 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
i 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
1 (ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work, in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
• (iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
Th~ term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small per~entage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204,5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
.
Matter of 1-K-
§/204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a i:najor, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
111ust provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
I 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
pbrcentage at the very top of the field of ende~vor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
f4lfilling the required number of criteria; considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
s~e also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
pfinciple that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context .of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to, be proven is probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
According to his January 2017 statement, the Petitioner seeks to enter the United States to work as 
ari architect and to "reach [his] maximum as an artist." He claims extraordinary ability in the field of 
"architecture and design," and offers evidence showing that he studied architecture and design in his 
native country, Georgia, and in Portugal. In 2017, while in the United States, he worked as a 
dJsigner and architect for , a design studio in· New York. 
The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). · As such, he must provide 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to 
satisfy the initial evidence requirements. While he asserts on appeal that he meets the following four 
criteria, the record does not support this assertion. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
award5for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner offers documentation confirming his receipt of the· following: 
(1) A third prize "for the best architectural project of 
Georgia," issued by 
2 New Head Office in 
.
.Matter of 1-K-
(2) A "First Pize [sic]" for" 
of Georgia; and 
(3) A second place recognition m the 
issued by " issued by the 
as relating to 
m 
While the Petitioner asserts on appeal that the above accol~des are "held on international level," he 
has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. Even assuming that the contenders for the prizes came 
from different parts of the world, to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must present evidence that 
the prizes are recognized in the field on a national or international level. Although the record 
contains some information about the award issuing entities, it lacks sufficient evidence confirming 
the awards that the Petitioner received enjoy national or international· recognition for excellence in 
the field of architecture and design. For example, he has not presented materials showing that 
publications or news outlets with a national or international audience reported on the awards or their 
recipients, or other documentation confirming that these honors are accepted in the fieid as national 
or international recognition for excellence. The Petitioner has therefore not met this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. relating to the alien ·s work in the fieldfor which class[ficat ion is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date. and author of the material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner maintains that he meets this criterion because his designs and brief descriptions of the 
designs were posted on Online printouts from the website indicate that it is a 
digital architecture and design magazine, has "4 million readers and 450,000 newsletter subscribers," 
ai;id, was named one of the top 100 design influencers in the world by magazine. Even if this 
publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media, the Petitioner 
has not shown that he satisfies this criterion. 
; 
Specially, the record reveals that the "has received [the Petitioner's projects] from 
our DIY submissions feature, where we welcome our readers to submit their own work for 
publication." The Petitioner has not shown that such self-promotional submissions constitute ' "[p ]ublished material about [him] ... relating to [his] work in the field," as required by the criterion. 
Moreover, he has not provided information relating to the author(s) of the brief descriptions of his 
designs posted on as required under the regulation. Accordingly, the Petitioner 
has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) . 
Tre record includes a number of project spec books from the design studio listing the 
P~titioner as the designer or architect. The evidence confirms that builders have completed some of 
tqese projects. T_he project spec books are materials the studio cre_ated for its clients, offering 
3 
.
Matter of I-K-
recommendations on the building and design of the projects. The Petitioner has nof demonstrated 
that his work in the project spec books was intended for anyone other than the clients, or that the I • s~aring of these materials between the studio and its customers qualifies as "the display of [his] work 
. : . at artistic exhibitions or showcases," as required under the regulation. 
Similarly, the· Petitioner has not established that a social media posting meets this criterion: 
Specifically, he claims that he satisfies this criterton because and 
reposted his photographs on their Instagram accounts. He, however, has not pointed to 
aµy legal authority, such as case law or regulatory or statutory language, supporting the position that 
businesses' social media accounts constitute "artistic exhibitions or showcases." 
The Petitioner also asserts the buildings that have been completed based on his designs satisfy this 
criterion. While these projects, located on the streets of New York City, confirm his work as an 
architect and designer, they are not displays at artistic exhibitions or showcases. · Examples of 
qpalifying display_s include those that are held at galleries, museums , or other artistic venues. In 
light of the above, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
. . 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign(ficantly high remuneration 
for services. in relation to others in the.field 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
,, 
The Petitioner's tax documents show that in 2017, he earned $39,150 in "wages, salaries, tips" and 
"business income." He has not explained if his entire earnings derived from his work as a designer 
and architect. Assuming such to be the case, the record, which does not include comparative 
compensation data in the field, is insufficient to show that he "has commanded a high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field," as required by the 
regulation. 
dn appeal, the Petitioner explains that his earnings have .been affected because he is not a permanent 
resident in the United States. This criterion requires evidence of his "high salary or other 
significantly high remuneration," without taking into consideration of his immigration status. While 
it,might be true that the Petitioner's income has been impacting by a number of factors, it remains 
t~at he has not established his salary or remuneration · is qualifying under the regulation. He has 
therefore not satisfied this criterion. i 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
Based on the evidence in the record, including reference letters and other documentation not 
specifically_ discussed in this decision, we find that the Petitioner has not submitted the required 
initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten 
cliteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 f.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a review of the record in its entirety, we 
conclude that it does n_ot support a finding that he has established the acclaim and recognition 
required for this classification. · 
4 
Matter of 1-K-
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price; 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of 
his academic and professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or 
internationa! acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-,723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 
. 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the. Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, 
it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of 
the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of Skirball Cultural 'Ctr., 25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
Here, that burden has not been met. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of 1-K-, ID# 2000665 (AAO Feb. 7, 2019) 
i 
) U.S. Citizeriship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-Z-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 7, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of materials 
science. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(])(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A).· This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentatioi:i. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets a third criterion that relates to original contributions 
of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), and qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to. continue work in the area of 
. extraordinary ability, and . 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in ''that small·percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."r 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
.
Matter of F-Z-
requirements. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, 
and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. ·see Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) ( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, 
both individually and within the context of the· totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
, to be proven is probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record, including the Petitioner's resume, shows that he received his Ph.D. degree in materials 
science in 2013, and has been working as a postdoctoral research associate ·at the 
since 2014. According to his 2018 statement, his research area relates to "the development of 
high capacity energy storage devices, including lithium ion battery, sodium ion battery and lithium­
rt sulfur battery." 
, 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the participation as a judge criterion under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and the authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The 
record supports this conclusion. The Petitioner has presented documentation from 
professional publications, confirming that he 
served as their reviewer and reviewed manuscripts in 2016 and 2017. In addition, the record shows 
that he has authored scholarly articles that are published in professional journals, including 
that appeared in Energy & Environmental Science, and 
that appeared in ACS Nano. Although the Petitioner has satisfied two criteria under 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), he has not satisfied the initial evidence requirements of meeting at 
least three criteria. 1 · . 
1 Th~ Petitioner has not alleged, and ·the record does not demonstrate , that he has received a major, internationally 
· recognized award. See 8 C.F. R: § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 CTR.§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satis.fy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
.
Matter of F-Z-
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets a third· criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), 
w~ich requires him to present "[ e ]vidence of [his] original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original, con'tributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field of materials science. Major significance in the field may be shown 
through evidence that his research findings or original methods or processes have been widely 
accepted and implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or 
have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The-record is insufficient to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence,2 that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the original contributions of major significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On appeal, he claims that the number of citations his scholarly articles have garnered and the 
reference letters discussing his research sufficiently establish that he meets this criterion. We 
d. . j 1sagree. 
According to his January 2018 statement, the Petitioner has "published 14 peer-reviewed arti.9les, 5 
,of them as the first author, in the leading journals in [the] field, including 1 article in Advanced 
Materials [ and] 1 article in ACS Nano." Scientists from different parts of the world have referenced 
his work. Printouts from scholar.google.com, including those dated May 2018, show that his most 
cited work, published in 2013, has garnered approximately 500 citations, while his other articles, 
published between 2012 and 2017, have received between a few hundreds to a handful of citations. 
Materials from Clarivate Analytics indicate that the citation rate of some of his articles is 
comparatively high in the field of materials science. Citation to one's work alone, however, is 
insufficient to confirm contributions of major significance in the field. Rather, we must consider 
whether the Petitioner's articles "have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from 
others working in the field, or ent1)es (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite 
[his] work as authoritative in the field." USCIS Policy. Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, 8. 
Such considerations may confirm that his research meets the original contributions of major 
significance criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). · 
The Petitioner has presented incomplete copies of articles that have cited to his work. These 
_ documents do not verify that his articles have been cited as authoritative in the field or have 
influenced the field in a significant way. Most of the articles briefly reference his work, among 
many other studies, and_ do not include an in-depth discussion on his research. For example, the 
incomplete copies . of the 2016 Advanced Materials · article 
and the 2016Advanced Functional Materials article 
• 2 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative,.and credible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is ''more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petition.(' Re,iisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 
22.2, A FM Update AD I l-14 4 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda, 
3 
.
Matter of F-Z-
show that each article cites the Petitioner's 2013 research once, in the respective introductory 
paragraph that includes approximately 25 citations to other studies. The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that brief references to his work confirm that it constitutes contributions of major 
significance. 
Although some m1icles include more information about the Petitioner's work, they do not establish 
that his research has been widely accepted and implemented throughout the field or has otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. Rather, these articles acknowledge that his studies 
have added to the general pool of knowledge , which, without evidence of significant impact or 
influence in the field, is insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
The reference letters in the record similarly are insufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
made original contributions of major significance in the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v).3 These 
letters discuss in detail the nature of the Petitioner 's studies, and claim that his work has benefited 
the field. For example, a professor at of Science and 
Technology in China, provides that the Petitioner 's research "has empowered many other sciences 
[sic] to construct their own experiments and to measure the merit of their findings." a 
professor at the states that the Petitioner's work "has proven very valuable 
for facilitating advancements in [the] field" of materials science. a professor at the 
indicates that the Petitioner '.'has opened new avenues for further 
innovations in the development of batteries and battery components." a professor at 
notes that the Petitioner "has introduced new methods, chemical processes , 
and elements that greatly improve battery function. " . the editor-in-chief of the 
maintains that the Petitioner's "achievements to date include developing 
-a facile, tunable, and cost-effective method of synthesizing high-capacity anode materials." 
These letters, while including information about the Petitioner's research, are insufficient to confirm 
that its impact or influence in the field has risen to the level of "major significance." See Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1122 (finding that "letters from physics professors attesting to [a petitioner's] 
contributions in the fiel_d" · were insufficient to meet this _ criterion). The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his work -which may have led to incremental improvements in knowledge and 
understanding in the field, as such are expected in any original research -qualities as ·contributions 
of major significance in the field. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 
("Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion."). 
The above and other letters not specifically discussed, as well as other evidence in the record, show 
that the Petitioner's work has added to the general pool of knowledge in the field. They are, 
however, insufficient to confirm widespread commentary and acceptance of his work, or that the 
field of materials science has regarded his research as authoritative. See Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 
·' While not eve;y letter in the record is discussed , all were considered in reaching our conclusion. 
4 
Matter of F-Z-
134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not 
demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). Letters that repeat the regulatory language but do 
not sufficiently explain how an ,individual's contributions have alr~ady influenced the field 
significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. See Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036·. 
In his January 2018 statement, the Petitioner indicates that he has "published additio~al articles in 
. ·major conference proceedings" and "authored a book chapter." These activities, as well as the 
publication of his articles, some of them in reputable journals, illustrate that. he has disseminated his 
work in the field.. The Petitioner, however; has not submitted sufficient evidence of the impact or 
influence that his work has·had in the field after dissemination. As such, he has not shown that these 
undertakings satisfy this criterion: · Publications and presentations are not sufficient under this 
criterion absent evidenc~ that they were of "major significance" in the field. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 
580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. Based ori the evidence in the 
r~cord·,. the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made original 
contributions of major significance in the field of materials science. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial. evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three ·of the ten criteria. As a· result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The· Petitioner seeks a highly· restrictive visa classification; intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than fQr individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
~ere, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his academic, scholarly, research, and 
professional accomplishments is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as· contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
.Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). . . 
J 
. For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as · an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
, 
Cite as Matter of F-Z-, ID# 2034743 (AAO Feb. 7, 2019) .. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5018245 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 7, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a photographer , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as a curator of the ~--------------~ I I. Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only two of the evidentiary 
criteria,judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and artistic display under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner served on a jury for several photography exhibitions and 
displayed his work in several photography exhibitions. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that 
the Petitioner met the judging and artistic display criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets three additional criteria, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and we conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues that he meets this criterion based on his membership with the China 
Photographers Association (CPA). The record provides that the CPA's task is "to unite photographers, 
photography practitioners and photography lovers from various ethnic groups, provide trainings to 
photographers, and promote the development and prosperity of Chinese photography cause," through 
its 50 photographers associations throughout China and more than 15,000 individual members. As 
evidence under this criterion, the Petitioner presented his membership card for the CPA, indicating 
that he has been a member of the association since 2009. He also provided a screenshot of his member 
page on the association's website at www.cpanet.org.cn, showing that his membership is at the I I level. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a document titled "[CPA] Individual Membership Requirements," 
which shows that membership is comprised of basic and professional performance requirements. The 
basic requirements indicate that the applicant must be over 18 years old, a citizen of the China, agree 
2 
to the articles of association of the CPA, and submit his or her own application. The professional 
performance qualifications require satisfying 15 credits to submit an application for consideration, 
with the performance criteria tailored to whether the applicant is engaged in: 1) photographic creation; 
2) photographic theoretical research; 3) photographic work, education, or accepting photographic 
education, or 4) photographic organizations or related works. Required materials for photographic 
creation are 10 pieces of photographic work, an essay, evidence the work has been awarded, selected 
for competition, present in exhibitions, or published. Those engaged in photographic work, education, 
and organizations, in addition to the above requirements, also must submit employment verification 
letters, while applicants who have received education in photography must provide diploma 
certificates. Finally, the applicant must also be recommended by two CPA members, and either a CPA 
group member branch or two CPA directors. The membership requirements document provides that 
"final approval is obtained from the CPA's leadership team," and the annual membership fee is ¥100. 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is based 
on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding achievements 
in the field for which classification is sought.1 The Petitioner's resume indicates that at the time he 
became a member of the CPA, he was engaged in photographic work, as a foll-time photojournalist 
and art editor atl I. Although the CPA's membership rules for applicants engaged in 
photographic work list professional experience requirements, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
an applicant's accomplishments or achievements rise to the level of "outstanding" consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. For instance, the Petitioner did not establish that the requirement of 10 pieces of 
photographic work, an essay, evidence the work has been awarded, selected for competition, present 
in exhibitions, or published, and employment verification letters, is viewed as an outstanding 
achievement in the field. Nor has the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that CPA 
applicants' achievements are judged by recognized national or international experts. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted documentation that satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. 
The Petitioner submitted several reference letters from colleagues in the field, including fellow 
curators and photographers. I I a curator and photography critic based in China, states that he 
has a "long term working relationship" withl I and has worked with the Petitioner planning the 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD 11-14 6-7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing an example of admission to membership in 
the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy 
member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in 
original research). 
3 
museum's exhibitions and conducting academic lectures and reports. He describes the Petitioner as a 
"young and promising photographer ... focused on the exploration of imagination and creativity" 
whose works "have formed a unique, concrete and vivid response to the development of contemporary 
social life .... " I I did not provide specific, detailed information explaining how the field 
considers the Petitioner's photographic work to be of major significance, or his work as a curator for I las an original contribution of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered a letter froml I an associate professor of photography at I I inl l who made general assertions regarding the Petitioner's work 
without specifically identifying original contributions of major significance in the field. I I 
states that he met the Petitioner in 2017, when I !curated the ,__ _____ ~ ___ _.at 
the~-------~ He provides that he was invited tol I where he was impressed by the 
"virtuosity" of the Petitioner's personal photography, as well as "the depth of research and 
complexity" of an exhibit the Petitioner curated on the history of photography from the I !region. 
While he praised the Petitioner's work,I ldid not identify original contributions or show how 
the field has been greatly impacted or influenced by the work. 
.___--r _ __._l _a_s--,enior curator based inl I states he met the Petitioner while participating in the 
2014 I I International Photography Festival. He describes the technique of several of the 
Petitioner's wior photographic works, such as I I' I I' and f I' He indicates that the Petitioner "has been invited to partici2ate in various 
important exhibitions," including thel 12013 Chinese Contemporary Photograph~ I 
Exhibition, and that his work "has been published and reported by various media." He describes the 
Petitioner as "one of the few artists in the domestic photography circle who has made achievements 
in artistic creation and theoretical commentary." Whilel J's letter confirms that the Petitioner's 
photographic work has been displayed at artistic venues it does not establish that it is a contribution 
of major significance in the field of photography. 
The letters considered above primarily contain attestations of the Petitioner's status in the field without 
providing specific examples of contributions that rise to a level consistent with major 
significance. The Petitioner did not show, for example, that the overall field considers the Petitioner's 
work to be of major significance.2 Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 3 Letters that lack 
specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 4 Moreover, USCIS need not accept 
primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 
1990). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
The record contains additional evidence that the Petitioner's photographic work has been selected for 
several exhibitions between 2007 and the date when the petition was filed in September 2018, 
including the China I I International Photograph Culture Festival, International 
Photo ra h Exhibition, I I Art Festival, Art Festival, I I 
~---~~P_ho~tography Exhibition,! !Art Fair, L..._ _ _,---,__ ___ ....J Gallery Alliance 
Exhibition, Intuition and Transformation Exhibition, and~-~2013 Chinese Contemporary 
Photography I I Exhibition. However, the Petitioner has not explained or documented the 
scope and sigmhcance of being displayed at those exhibitions. While the record contains information 
from the websites of those exhibitions, the record does not reflect that selection by them represents a 
contribution of major significance in the field of photography. 
As farther evidence in support of this criterion, the Petitioner provided several articles from the 
websites www.blog.sina.com, www.nooderlicht.com, and the magazine China Photo Press. The 
Petitioner also submitted a catalogue from the I I 2013 Chinese Contemporary Photography I !Exhibition. The articles from www.blog.sina.com and www.nooderlicht.com provide 
the authors' impressions of the Petitioner's photographic works I t' 
1 l"l I" 1 r' and 1 r The 
item from China Photo Press contains a commentary byl I on the Petitioner's work~ I t The exhibition catalogue provides the Petitioner's description of his intentions and 
technique in the photographic series 'I ~" and a judge's impressions of the work. These 
articles do not show that the overall field considers the Petitioner's work to be of major significance, 
and the Petitioner did not elaborate on the importance of the catalog and how the field considers it to 
be majorly significant. 
In light of the above, the Petitioner did not show he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he satisfies this criterion based upon his role as curator forl I For 
the reasons discussed below, the record does not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner has performed in a leading or critical role forl I or that this organization has achieved 
a distinguished reputation. As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner 
is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, 
in fact, leading. 5 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role 
that determines whether the role is or was critical. 6 
II support! of this criterion, the Petitioner provided a letter from I I Chairman of the Council 
at He confirms that the Petitioner has worked at the museum since 2010, in such roles as 
exhibition director and vice-curator, before becrming clrator in 201 7 and being "responsible for the 
academic activities and daily administration." asserts that the Petitioner has expanded the 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
6 Id. 
5 
1m ortance and reach of three of the museum's photography brands, which are the Ranking List of 
:======~=~Exhibition, the I I Digital Photography Art Exhibition, and the 
.__ _______ _. of Photo Galleries. He claims those brands "have successfully helped the 
museum in establishing academic influences and in seeking art community resources around the 
world." He farther provides that the Petitioner is the main editor of the museum's I Photography 
Magazine, and heads the museum's team that helps organize thel I local government's biannual 
photo festival. He contends that the Petitioner "has made tremendous contributions to the development 
of the museum." 
Whilel Is letter establishes that the Petitioner previously performed as a curator atl l and 
describes the duties he has performed for the organization, I I does not elucidate how the 
Petitioner's position fits within the overall hierarchy of the organization. For example, s 
aforementioned letter indicates that he has a "long term working relationship" with.___ _ _.as a curator, 
and I I's letter mentions! ts "professional team dedicated to academic research, exhibition 
implementation, public services, channel liaison and information exchange." I I does not explain 
how the Petitioner's position as a curator relates to otherc=J curators such as I [ or the 
members of the museum's "professional team." Further---c=] does not sufficiently detail the 
Petitioner's impact on the organization. 
Finally, even accepting that the Petitioner's experience constitutes a leading or critical role for._l __ _. 
the evidence is insufficient to show that th{s organ{zation has a distinguished reputation. Although□ D s aforementioned letter asserts that "has garnered a prestige around the globe," the 
Petitioner did not corroborate that the organization enjoys a distinguished reputation. It provided 
materials about! I from its website, but USCIS need not rely on self-promotional material. See 
Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO, c~ff'd 317 Fed. Appx. 680 (C.A.9). The Petitioner has not 
provided independent evidence, such as independent media reports, to establish tha~ lhas a 
distin~ reputation. Regardless, the aforementioned information and evidence is not sufficient 
to setl__Japart from other museums in the field or otherwise reflect its distinguished reputation. 7 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown he meets this regulatory criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
7 Id. (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictiona1y definition of ·'distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence). 
6 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has served on a jury for several photography exhibitions and has displayed his 
work in several photography exhibitions, the Petitioner has not established that his professional 
accomplishments have placed him among the upper level of his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5527222 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 7, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a clinical chemist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to be "one of the top researchers in the field of laboratory testing for the diagnosis 
of disease in pediatrics in the United States and the World." The Petitioner earned a master's degree in 
organic chemistry at Universit where she then remained as an instructor for several years 
before earning a doctorate at~ ____ ....,........ University. During her doctoral studies, she was also a 
clinical chemistry intern at the ~---~~linic. When she filed the petition, the Petitioner was a 
postdoctoral fellow atl !Children's Hospital, a teaching hospital orl._ _ ____.K::ollege ofMedicine.1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met five criteria, summarized 
below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied only two criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). We agree, 
and will not disturb those determinations. The Petitioner does not contest the denial of criterion (i), and 
has therefore effectively abandoned the issue. 2 
Because the Petitioner has satisfied two of the regulatory criteria, she must satisfy one more in order for 
the case to proceed to a final merits determination. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, 
1 The appellate brief refers to this employment in the present tense, but the appeal form shows that the Petitioner has 
relocated from Texas to New York. 
2 See Sepulveda v. US. Att); Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-
27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *I, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (the court found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned 
as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
we conclude that the Petitioner has met only the two criteria granted above. We discuss the two 
remaining criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
We agree with the Director's finding that the Petitioner has not met the requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claims that several memberships meet the requirements for this criterion. The record, 
however, does not show that any of these memberships require outstanding achievements. Instead, the 
record shows that the requirements for the Petitioner's level of membership include factors such as 
educational level and experience. 
For example, materials from Iota Sigma Pi, National Honor Society for Women in Chemistry, state: "To 
be eligible, the applicant must ... hold a Ph.D. in chemistry or [related] field." Associate fellowship in 
the Association of Clinical Scientists is open to "Clinical Scientists who hold an earned doctorate degree, 
but who are still in a postdoctoral training program." The Petitioner does not explain how participation 
in routine postdoctoral training is an outstanding achievement. 
The Petitioner has not established that academic degrees, experience in the field, and professional 
activities such as research are outstanding achievements. Rather, they are either core requirements for 
employment in a given field, or the expected result of employment in that field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses the membership requirements in greater detail and identifies the 
members of several membership committees, but the involvement of such committees does not establish 
that those associations require outstanding achievements of their members. Similarly, some organizations 
require sponsorship or recommendations from existing members, but this requirement does not establish 
that the associations require outstanding achievements as judged by recognized national or international 
experts. 
While the Petitioner has documented her membership in several associations, she has not shown that any 
of them require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their fields. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
3 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner has proposed changes to various testing protocols. For example, she found that it saved 
time and money to perform certain! I screening tests in-house rather than sending tests to an 
outside laboratory. Changes at one institution do not reflect major significance in the field as a whole. 
We note that the Petitioner often publishes her findings, making them available throughout the field, but 
the record does not show the extent to which other institutions have adopted and implemented the changes 
that she has proposed. 
The Petitioner has also participated in validation of assays, but the record does not reflect the extent to 
which her work has affected the overall outcome of the validation studies. For instance, the record is 
silent as to whether the Petitioner alone performed the validations, or was one member of a larger group. 
The record does not establish whether assay validation is a relatively rare occurrence or a common and 
routine element of clinical chemistry. This absent information may affect the intrinsic significance of a 
given assay validation. The Petitioner stated that one of her studies showed that an assay performs as 
intended. 
In another example of her claimed contributions to the field, the Petitioner studied recent changes to the 
guidelines for diagnosis o~ ~' to examine "whether the change in guidelines would have 
impactedOetection." The Petitioner "discovered that the new guidelines enhanced the probability of 
identifying individuals at risk for0" The Petitioner did not explain how this amounts to an original 
contribution of major significance, given that (1) the new guidelines were already in use; (2) the Petitioner 
played no role in developing those guidelines; and (3) the Petitioner's work did not result in any 
modifications to those guidelines. 
In a further instance, the Petitioner and her collaborators studied how various amounts ofLJ interfere 
with certain immunoassays. In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner stated that she 
"discovered interference by~- , which is significant to the field because it led to hospitals' 
changing their entire platformfurl_Jte
1sting.'I Previously, however, the Petitioner had acknowledged 
that "it has been reported previously that interference can lead to lalselyl elevated or low results." 
The Petitioner' r own hublished article cited several earlier articles about interference. Therefore, 
the inquiry into was not, itself: an original contribution. The Petitioner asserted, nevertheless, that 
her work was sifnificar because "none of those [earlier] studies were conducted with different 
concentrations of ' The Petitioner co-authored a journal article that recommended the use of 
"immunoassay platforms that do not use the I !interaction." 
The director of client services for "an organization that provides guality control tools, training, and 
technology for medical laboratories" called the Petitioner'sl I article "a critical addition to the 
literature" because the extent ofl !interference had previously been underestimated. The record, 
however, does not establish the extent to which the Petitioner's work has had an impact and influence 
regarding the affected test. 
An assistant professor at I !University states: "at our institution, we are considering using the 
data generated by [the Petitioner's] research to evaluate! !interference on our automated chemistry 
4 
analyzer." It bears noting that this individual and the Petitioner "trained together at._l _ ____.I College of 
Medicine," both under a faculty member who co-authored thel lpaper. 
The director of the Central Clinical Laboratory and Central Processing at theDClinic stated that the 
Petitioner's "work o interference has led to changes in the entire platform fore=]_ 
testing ... and has been idplemrted by many hospitals, includi~ 
Children's Hospital." He did not say whether or not th Clinic was among the "many hospitals," 
and the vague wording of the assertion does not establish the extent of the Petitioner's impact. 
Furthermore, because several prior studies had already identified the~ issue, it is not clear to what 
extent the Petitioner's work, in particular, led to widespread changes in testing procedures. 
The record provides additional examples of the Petitioner's work, but, as above, the Petitioner did not 
provide evidence of impact and influence or otherwise show that her work has had major significance in 
the field. Discussion of the seriousness of a particular disease or the importance of a particular test does 
not suffice in this respect. 
The Petitioner has not shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in her field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25051367 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish he was the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 53 7, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we conclude 
that a remand is warranted in this case. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Petitioner's Field 
We begin correcting the record relating to the field in which the Petitioner has worked and proposes 
to continue such work in an area of claimed extraordinary ability. The Director indicated his field was 
aerospace engineering. However, the Petitioner notes his field is among those working in the area of 
composite materials. Although the Petitioner's Ph.D. certificate reflects his degree is in aerospace 
engineering, within the appeal he notes his studies specialized in both that area as well as composite 
structures. A review of the record reveals much of the Petitioner's work centers on composites and 
their use in various industries and we consider his field to be in that broader specialization. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles, but that he had not satisfied either criteria associated with prizes or awards, or 
contributions of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets both the 
evidentiary criteria the Director denied. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree the 
Petitioner satisfied the criteria the Director granted, and we conclude he has satisfied at least one 
additional criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided the 2020 American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) I prize. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not satisfy the requirements of this criterion because he did not establish the award was nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
2 
We note the Director only discussed whether the Petitioner provided evidence the award was 
nationally or internationally recognized through major trade publications or other major media, but 
they did not evaluate whether the award might receive such recognition through its issuance by an 
international- or a national-level professional association. On appeal, the Petitioner claims the 
Director ignored some of the evidence it submitted under this criterion. It offered a letter from the 
co founder of the award who noted this award is open to competition from those around the world and 
not simply those at a conference, he provided the judging criteria related to the award, and evidence 
relating to AIAA as a historied professional association and it is the world's largest technical society 
relating to the aerospace profession. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. Here, the 
Petitioner has offered evidence that this award meets all of these requirements. Accordingly, we 
withdraw the Director's unfavorable determination as it relates to this criterion. 
C. Petitioner's Signatures on Immigration Forms 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2) provides that "[u]nless otherwise specified in this chapter, an 
acceptable signature on a benefit request that is being filed with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) is one that is either handwritten or, for benefit requests filed electronically as 
permitted by the instructions to the form, in electronic format." According to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A), USCIS will reject a request that does not bear a valid signature when it receives 
the request. USCIS policy reflects in instances where the agency has accepted a benefit request for 
adjudication and we subsequently discover a deficient signature, we will deny the benefit instead of 
rejecting it. See generally l USCIS Policy Manual B.2(A), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
A person's signature on an immigration form establishes a strong presumption that the signing party 
knows its contents and has assented to them, absent evidence of fraud or other wrongful acts by another 
person. Matter of Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496, 499 (BIA 2018) ( citing Thompson v. Lynch, 788 F.3d 
638, 647 (6th Cir. 2015); Bingham v. Holder, 637 F.3d 1040, 1045 (9th Cir. 2011). The probative 
force of a declaration subscribed under penalty of perjury derives from the signature of the declarant. 
Although the "regulations do not require that the person signing submit an 'original' or 'wet ink' 
signature on a petition, application, or other request to USCIS," we do "not accept signatures created 
by a typewriter, word processor, stamp, auto-pen, or similar device." 1 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, 
at B. Also see l USC IS Policy Manual, supra, at A ( stating that "[ee ]xcept as otherwise specifically 
authorized, a benefit requestor must personally sign his or her own request before filing it with 
USCTS"). USCTS has implemented these regulations and attendant policies "to maintain the integrity 
of the immigration benefit system and validate the identity of benefit requestors." 1 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at A. Finally, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 292.4(a) requires that the Form G-28, Notice 
of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative "must be properly completed and 
signed by the petitioner, applicant, or respondent to authorize representation in order for the appearance 
to be recognized by DHS." 
3 
It appears that at least three signatures in the record might not comply with the regulation or USCIS 
policy.1 We especially observe that the Petitioner's signatures appear idiosyncratic on the Form G-28 
that accompanied the petition, as well as his signature on the petition itself. They first drew our 
attention as they are much lighter in color than a signature normally appears. Upon further review of 
the physical document itself: we observed no impression from the signature on the opposite side of 
the paper, and closer inspection of the signature revealed that it is comprised of small lines or shading. 
This appears to be a variation of the Ben Day technique in which printing-or in this case 
electronically transposing an item-uses lines or textures to create a lighter shaded product while using 
less ink than it would take to make a solid line. Laurence Petit and Pascale Tollance, Point, Dot, 
Period ... The Dynamics of Punctuation in Text and Image, 10 (Cambridge Scholars Publishing) 
(2016). 
After those factors raised suspicion, we compared these signatures to the rest of his signatures in the 
record and we discovered that at least three signatures are identical in numerous observable manners. 
Those three identical signatures appear on the Form G-28 submitted before the Director, on the 
petition, and on the Petitioner's personal statement he filed when he filed the petition. The Director 
may wish to determine if those representations were electronically transposed onto the documents, 
because if they were, then each signature would not be considered a valid signature in accordance with 
the regulation and agency policy. 2 
We acknowledge that in some instances, a photocopy of an original signature is acceptable on USCIS 
forms. But such acceptance is limited to when the filing party: (I) executes an original signature 
directly onto the immigration form, (2) a photocopy is made of that form, and (3) the photocopy of the 
original signature on the original immigration form is submitted to USCIS. USCIS policy specifically 
states that any such photocopy "must be of an original document containing an original handwritten 
signature, unless otherwise specified." See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, B.2(B). That is 
not what we seemingly have before us here, and the Director may wish to decide if these 
indistinguishable representations of the Petitioner's signature make it more likely than not that they 
were electronically transposed onto the immigration forms, which would not adhere to the stated 
policy. 
Without knowing whether these documents are in compliance with the regulation and USCIS policy, 
we cannot determine whether the original petition was properly filed. See generally 8 C.F.R. 
§ I 03 .2( a). Further, in the same way that one person signing a declaration "for" another person carries 
no evidentiary force, neither will an image of a signature duplicated in using some electronic means 
or method. Without the signatory's actual and personal signature as the declarant, the Director would 
operate within their authority in concluding that the Petitioner's declaration under the penalty of 
perjury on these immigration forms has no evidentiary force. See In re Rivera, 342 B.R. 435, 458-59 
(D. N.J. 2006); Blumbergv. Gates, No. CV 00-05607, 2003 WL 22002739 (C.D. Cal. Aug. 19, 2003). 
1 In making this observation, we do not propose to be handwriting experts. But we can identify identical appearing 
representations of a person's identity, especially when they contain characteristics that are identical in their slant or angle, 
where the writing instrument lifts at identical portions of various letters, symmetry of the letters, etc. 
2 We discuss the Petitioner's personal statement because it is identical to the other documents. In doing so, we acknowledge 
that his personal statement is not an immigration form, subject to the requirements described in the regulation and agency 
policy. 
4 
If the Director were to determine the signature on the petition is deficient, in line with agency policy, 
it is within their discretion to issue an adverse decision on that basis. See generally l USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, B.2(A). Because the signature issue was not addressed previously before the Director, 
and because the record otherwise supports a favorable determination on a third criterion and warrants 
a remand, we will not make a decision on the signature issue in the first instance here. However, the 
Petitioner should be prepared to demonstrate that each of the signatures on immigration forms in the 
record comply with the regulation and with USCIS policy on this issue. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this matter so the 
Director can reevaluate whether the petition warrants an approval to include the signature issue and, 
if they find in the Petitioner's favor on that requirement, a final merits determination in keeping with 
the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25051384 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 7, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he was the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to 
demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner attained several degrees from his studies spanning from 2004 to 2014, and he has 
operated in the network communications and the "internet of things" realm. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before 
the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met eight of the regulatory criteria. The Director decided that 
the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles and performing in 
a leading or critical role, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with: 
• Prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Judging; 
• Original contributions; or 
• Commercial success. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material, 
original contributions, and commercial success. As the Petitioner does not contest the following 
criteria, he has abandoned those claims within these proceedings: prizes or awards, membership, and 
judging. See Matter of Zhang, 27 I&N Dec. 569, 569 n.2 (BIA 2019) (finding that an issue not 
appealed is deemed as abandoned). 
A. Translation Certifications 
We begin noting a deficiency in the appellate evidence relating to documents that originate in a foreign 
language. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3)) states "[a]ny document containing foreign language 
submitted to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) shall be accompanied by a full English 
language translation which the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's 
certification that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English." See also 
Matter of Nevarez, 15 I&N Dec. 550, 551 (BIA 1976). 
2 
The language utilized within the regulation implicitly precludes a single certification that validates several 
translated forms of evidence unless the certification specifically lists the translated documents. Without 
a single translator's certification for each foreign language form of evidence, or a translator's certification 
specifically listing the documents it is validating, the certification cannot be regarded to be certifying any 
specific form of evidence. The final determination of whether evidence meets the plain language 
requirements of a regulation lies with USCIS. See Matter of Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988) (finding the appropriate entity to determine eligibility is USCIS). 
Reviewing the certifying documents relating to the Petitioner's evidence on appeal, those instruments 
appear to be a single certification document that was photocopied for each form of evidence originating 
in a foreign language, and they do not identify what document they are translating. Each certification is 
identical in appearance to include the certifier's unique signature as well as the handwritten date. 1 A 
photocopied blanket certification that does not identify the translations it is certifying-or name the 
Petitioner-is not probative evidence that the certification relates to all or any of the translations in 
this record of proceeding. Such a deficiency in the certification results in the evidence accompanied 
by these translations to possess diminished value and are insufficient to demonstrate the validity of 
the foreign language materials. 
Because the Director did not raise this specific issue, we will not apply this determination to the two 
criteria the Director granted unless the Petitioner demonstrates he satisfies one additional criterion, 
which would result in a remand to the Director. We also note the translator's signature on the 
documents before the Director appears markedly different than the signature for this same individual 
on appeal. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessmy translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined the Petitioner's evidence did not meet the requirements of this criterion 
because it was not about him. The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion and 
submitted supporting evidence. The Director found the Petitioner did not satisfy the regulatory 
requirements and issued a request for evidence (RFE), but the Petitioner's response to that request did 
not contain claims relating to this criterion. The regulation states a petitioner shall submit additional 
evidence as a director, in his or her discretion, may deem necessary. The purpose of an RFE is to elicit 
further information that clarifies whether eligibility for the benefit sought has been established, as of 
the time the petition is filed. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(8), (12). The failure to submit requested evidence 
that precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the petition. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 103.2(b)(14). 
1 In making this determination, we do not propose to be handwriting experts. But we can identify identical appearing 
documents, especially when they contain letters, words, and numbers that are indistinguishable in their slant or angle, 
writing instrument lifts at identical portions of various letters, symmetry of the letters, etc. 
3 
Where, as here, a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept new claims or evidence offered for the 
first time on appeal. See Matter of Izaguirre, 27 I&N Dec. 67, 71 (BIA 2017) (citing Matter of 
Soriano, 19 T&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 T&N Dec. 533, 53 7 
(BIA 1988). If the Petitioner had wanted the submitted claims and evidence to be considered, he 
should have submitted the documents in response to the Director's RFE. Id. Under the circumstances, 
we are not obligated to consider the sufficiency of these specific claims or evidence submitted on 
appeal. 
Setting that issue aside, the Petitioner provided several documents that appear to either be articles or 
in-person interviews. Even though the material appears to reflect the title, date, and author, it lacks 
the source in which each form of evidence appeared. Furthermore, the translations of this material are 
accompanied by the deficient certifications that significantly diminishes the evidentiary value of this 
material. Although the appeal brief indicates the Petitioner is mentioned in each form of evidence, he 
does not establish the Director committed an error in evaluating the material under this criterion's 
requirements. 
Based on these numerous shortcomings, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) ( finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). 
Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have already been realized rather than being potential, 
future improvements. Contributions of major significance connotes the Petitioner's work has 
significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to 
meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed his eligibility under this criterion based on his participation on committees that 
produced standards for various practices in his field, as well as his role in receiving patents. The 
Director determined the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's role on committees, the Director noted he did not offer evidence about 
the committees, the specific work that resulted from each committee, or the actual impact of each 
committee's work in the broader field. On appeal, the Petitioner restates he was one of the main 
drafters in the preparation of national standards and he identifies several exhibits and their 
corresponding exhibit number that corroborate his claims. However, a review of the Petitioner's 
appellate materials-consisting of more than 250 pages-reveals that he did not organize the evidence 
4 
using exhibit numbers as he claims. Due to the nature of the material appearing in a foreign language, 
it is also not clear how the documents are organized. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's 
burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; 
Matter ofOtiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013). 
We noted above why foreign documents without sufficient certified translations will not adequately 
aid the Petitioner in demonstrating eligibility within these proceedings. Even setting that deficiency 
aside, the appellate material that we can discern as addressing the various committees and their work 
does not establish how that work had a significant effect in the Petitioner's broader field. Simply 
claiming a group effort to create standards without evidence showing how those standards impacted 
the field are insufficient under this criterion. Additionally, when a petitioner advances similar claims 
on appeal that they presented to the Director, but without explaining how the Director's decision 
contained any errors, this may generally be viewed as an inadequate basis to claim eligibility under 
this criterion on appeal. 
Because the Petitioner submits foreign material with deficient translations, he offers significant 
amounts of evidence without devising a method to identify what documents he is referencing, and he 
does not explain how the Director might have erred in their decision, he has not overcome the adverse 
determination relating to this criterion on appeal. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
The Petitioner provided information related to patents. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion because the regulation limits this provision to those in 
the performing arts. Although the Petitioner contests the Director's ultimate determination under this 
criterion, he does not address the Director's actual reasoning for not granting the criterion. As the 
Petitioner has not addressed the Director's findings nor adequately explained how his claims or 
evidence situate him within the performing arts, he has not met the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of their work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
5 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 07, 2024 In Re: 29259333 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial arts instructor , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director ofthe Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. 
Later, the Petitioner filed seven motions, which we dismissed. The matter is now before us on an 
eighth motion, which is a motion to reconsider. In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon 
review, we will dismiss the motion. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
In our most recent decision, the dismissal of the Petitioner's seventh motion, we determined that the 
Petitioner did not show that we erroneously applied law or policy in deciding that he did not meet 
eligibility criteria concerning awards, membership, the performance of leading or critical roles, and 
contributions of major significance to the field in which he claims have extraordinary ability. 
Although the Petitioner generally asserted that we failed to consider his documentary evidence and 
erred in its review of evidence, he did not identify what evidence was not considered or specify how 
his motion was erroneously dismissed . For the sake of brevity, we incorporate our previous analysis 
of the record. 1 
In the current motion, the Petitioner submits a brief that is almost identical to the brief submitted with 
his sixth motion. See Matter of O-S-G-, 24 l&N Dec. 56, 58 (BIA 2006) (finding that a motion to 
reconsider is not a process by which the party may submit, in essence, the same brief and seek 
reconsideration by generally alleging error in the prior decision) . Disagreeing with our conclusions 
1 Our most previous decision in this matter was ID# 27202723 (AAO JUN. 5, 2023). 
without showing how we erred as a matter of law or pointing to policy that contradicts our analysis of 
the evidence is not a ground to reconsider our decision. Id. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that his current motion meets the requirements for a motion to reconsider under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). Therefore, we will dismiss his motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly applied law or policy in our previous decision based 
on the record before us. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 07, 2024 In Re: 29850585 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (National Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer and entrepreneur in the emergency vehicle signaling (EVS) 
industry, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification , either by 
demonstrating his receipt of a major, international award or by satisfying at least three of the ten 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur in the emergency vehicle signaling industry and has extensive 
professional experience in product engineering and development in this field, including experience 
with microcontroller programming, optics, signaling systems, and design of lenses for LED lighting 
applications. The record reflects that he intends to pursue work in the same field in the United States 
and has established a Texas limited liability company for this purpose. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three ofthe alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv), (v), (vi), (viii) and (ix), summarized below: 
• Membership in associations in the field; 
• Judging the work of others in the field; 
• Original contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Performance in leading or critical roles; and 
• High salary, or other significantly high remuneration, in relation to others. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner satisfied two of the six claimed criteria. Specifically, the 
Director concluded that he has authored scholarly articles and served in leading or critical roles for 
organizations that have a distinguished reputation, and thus satisfied the plain language of the criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and (viii). The record supports the Director's conclusion that the 
Petitioner meets these criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director did not carefully review and consider the evidence 
submitted in support of the petition, and instead based the denial, in part, on evidence submitted with 
the Petitioner's previous Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, requesting the same 
classification. Specifically, the Petitioner emphasizes that the Director's decision refers to evidence 
that was not submitted in support of the instant petition and fails to address relevant and probative 
evidence demonstrating that he meets additional criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner concedes that the prior petition, as filed, did not establish his eligibility but emphasizes that 
the two petitions are "entirely different." 
2 
Although we conduct de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case because the 
Director's decision is insufficient for review. As noted by the Petitioner, the record reflects that the 
Director's analysis ofthe criteria at both 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (ix) was copied verbatim from 
a March 8, 2023, decision denying the Petitioner's prior petition I I The Petitioner 
did not submit the same evidence in support ofthis petition, and therefore, the analysis does not reflect 
the Director's consideration of any of the Petitioner's claims and evidence with respect to these two 
criteria. Considering these facts, the Director's reliance on the prior decision was clearly in error. 
An officer's written decision must folly explain the specific reasons for denial. See 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3(a)(l)(i). When a decision does not meet these requirements, the petitioner does not have a fair 
opportunity to contest the decision on appeal. See Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) 
(finding that a decision must folly explain the reasons for denying a motion to allow the respondent a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). Because the Director's decision 
does not address the evidence submitted with the petition or in response to the RFE with respect to the 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (ix), we will remand the matter. 
On remand, the Director is instructed to re-evaluate the evidence submitted in support of the petition 
to determine whether the Petitioner satisfied the plain language of at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), and to issue a new decision. The Director should also review the Petitioner's 
appellate brief, which farther discusses the previously submitted evidence submitted in support of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
If the Director determines that the Petitioner satisfied at least three criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
the new decision should evaluate, based on the totality of the evidence in the record, whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance ofthe evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, that 
he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23072127 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 08, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability)l-140A (Extraordinary 
Ability) 
The Petitioner, a photographer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements through evidence of a one-time 
achievement or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, 
or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates he owns and operates two businesses based in Brazil, a photography business, I I Photography, and a digital marketing agency.I I He states that he intends to 
continue working as a Director of Photography for his companies in the United States. 
The Petitioner did not indicate, and the record does not establish, that he has received a major, 
internationally recognized award pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner must therefore 
demonstrate his eligibility under at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the regulatory requirements for one 
criterion, published material about the individual in professional or major media under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii). The record reflects major media has published material about the Petitioner. 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner met the published material criterion. 
In denying the petition, the Director found the Petitioner's evidence for five regulatory criteria was 
insufficient. On appeal, the Petitioner argues that he meets three of those evidentiary criteria, display 
of work at artistic showcases or exhibitions, leading or critical role, and high salary in relation to others 
in the field. After reviewing the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established 
that he satisfies at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria and is not otherwise eligible for the 
requested benefit. 
2 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or 
fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must document their membership in an assocIatIon and 
demonstrate that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.1 
The Director found that while the evidence indicated that the Petitioner is a member of Professional 
Photographers of America, it did not establish that this association requires outstanding achievements 
of its members. Upon review, we agree with the Director's finding regarding this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner did not directly address this criterion, therefore we will consider his claim to this 
criterion abandoned.2 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
This criterion requires evidence that a petitioner's work was displayed, and that display occurred 
within an exhibition or showcase that was artistic in nature.3 The Director found that the evidence 
was insufficient to show the Petitioner's work has been displayed in an artistic exhibition or showcase. 
The Petitioner submitted a marketing flyer and photographs from an event entitled I I 
__________ in I I from January 18 to 23, 2008. The Director found 
that such marketing material was not sufficient evidence that the Petitioner's work was displayed at 
an artistic exhibition. We agree with the Petitioner's argument that the photographs submitted show 
"[the Petitioner] and his photography displays within an artistic photography exhibition venue." Also, 
the marketing flyer clearly states that the event is a photographic exhibition of the Petitioner's work. 
The submitted photographs showing the Petitioner with his photographs being displayed at the event, 
together with the marketing flyer stating this was a photographic exhibition of the Petitioner's work, 
are sufficient evidence demonstrating the Petitioner's photographic work was displayed at an artistic 
exhibition. 
The Petitioner also submitted marketing flyers from other events displaying the Petitioner's 
photographs, as well as screenshots of online videos of Brazilian singers and articles related to the 
videos where the Petitioner and the company,! I are credited with the direction, production, 
1 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2) appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (providing an example 
of admission to membership in the National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be 
nominated by an academy member, and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's 
distinguished achievements in original research). 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal). 
3 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix (stating that officers should use the common dictionary 
definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion). 
3 
screenplay and editing of videos. If the Petitioner meets three of the required criteria, we will then 
consider this evidence with the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has demonstrated he meets this criterion, and we 
withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vi ii). 
To meet the plain language requirements of this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have 
performed in either a leading or critical role, and that the role has been for an organization or 
establishment (or a division or department of an organization or establishment) having a distinguished 
reputation. A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy 
and through the role's matching duties. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish 
if a role is or was, in fact, leading.4 If a critical role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or 
establishment's activities. It is not the title of the petitioner's role, but rather the petitioner's 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. In addition, this criterion 
requires that the organization or establishment be recognized as having a distinguished reputation, 
which is marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence.5 
The Director found that the evidence submitted did not satisfy the plain language of this criterion. The 
Director stated that while the evidence showed the Petitioner photographed Brazilian singers during 
their careers, it was not sufficient to show that the Petitioner performed in a leading or critical role for 
an establishment or organization having a distinguished reputation. The Director listed the 
Petitioner's evidence but did not analyze why the evidence did not meet the elements of the criterion. 
Upon de nova review, we find that the Petitioner has not established eligibility for this critierion by a 
preponderance of the evidence, as explained below. 
The Petitioner indicates he is the founder, owner, and primary Director of Photography for two 
Brazilian businesses, ______ (doing business asl !Photography) and I I The record establishes the Petitioner has a leading role for these businesses. 
The Petitioner argues these entities have a distinguishable reputation based on the work he has done 
through these entities "for distinguished clients, including shooting and editing the album cover of 
Grammy winning musical artistl I as well as prolific media coverage [the Petitioner's] 
companies have garnered." The Petitioner submitted the businesses' website information pages and 
articles briefly describing he founded the services offered 
by the businesses, the history of the businesses, and clients they have worked with. The Petitioner 
also submitted photographs of music album covers indicating him as the photographer or director, 
4 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
5 Id. (noting that Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines "distinguished" as "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence or befitting an eminent person"). 
4 
letters from the Petitioner's singer clients attesting to the Petitioner's work, articles about the successes 
of the singers, and articles about the Petitioner and his photography work for successful singers. 
Although the record includes testimonial letters from the Petitioner's clients praising the Petitioner's 
photography and artistic talents, as well as, confirming their business relationship with the Petitioner 
as a contributor to their successes, these letters do not speak to the businesses' reputations. Two letters 
mention in a sentence that the Petitioner provides his services through the business, I I I I however, the letters do not attest to the reputation of the business. For instance, while the 
letter froml I states, "[t]hrough his company, has been 
my photographer for all facets of my career," I I goes on to explain at length the work 
performed by the Petitioner and the critical role he played in shaping I I career, including 
the Petitioner receiving "a critically acclaimed spotlight for his work regarding our I I 
Award in 2012." The letter froml I also explains at length the photo ra h and video 
work performed by the Petitioner for him, and the impact the Petitioner has had on career 
with a brief reference that artists want to hire the firm, _______ The letter from 
mostly explains that the Petitioner's work has helped towards his successful career and states the 
Petitioner has an extraordinary ability with his photography and marketing consultancy work. Mr. 
Dalso identifies the services ofl land credits it for his success, however, he 
does not speak to the business's distinguished reputation. While the letters show the Petitioner's 
clients value the Petitioner's services and talents, they do not demonstrate his businesses are 
organizations or entities with a distinguished reputation. 
The record contains a media article from Metropoles complimenting the Petitioner's achievements as 
a photographer and marketing consultant for well-known singers. The article mainly focuses on the 
Petitioner's life and his history becoming a photographer. The article does not mention I I I I and briefly mentions in a sentence that I I was formed in 2015 with the names of its 
artist clients. The Petitioner submitted another article from Cartao de Visita to establish his 
businesses' distinguished reputations. However, the article does not include the author of the article 
and seems to be a marketing, public relations article since the wording is primarily the same, word for 
word, as the wording on the website for I I Photography, except the article also indicates 
the Petitioner now lives and works in Florida. The Cartao de Visita article has the same sentence 
about I used in the Metropoles article. While these articles mention! I and some of its 
clients, they do not provide sufficient evidence the businesses have a reputation marked by eminence, 
distinction or excellence as required by this criterion. 
Other articles submitted relate to his clients' videos and their achievements. While the Petitioner and 
the business.I I are credited in the articles for direction, production, and photography, the 
articles primarily focus on the artists, instead of the reputation of the Petitioner's businesses. The 
evidence is therefore insufficient to establish that the Petitioner's businesses have a distinguished 
reputation. 
5 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly 
high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h )(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that their salary or remuneration is high relative 
to the compensation paid to others working in the field in similar positions and geographic locations.6 
The burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate comparative evidence. Examples may include, 
but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. Persons working 
in different countries should be evaluated based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence in that 
country, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that 
salary would be considered high in the United States.7 
The Petitioner provided his 2018 Brazil individual income tax return; wage data for photographers 
and production directors from online sources, including Salary Explorer and Salary Expert; and an 
article discussing photographer salaries in European countries and Brazi I. We agree with the Petitioner 
that the income tax return is for an individual, the Petitioner, as opposed to the Director's 
categorization of it being for a business. 
However, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner's income tax return shows the income he 
received as an owner of the company, instead of as a Director of Photography. 
The tax return indicates that the Petitioner's nature of occupation is "company owner or sole proprietor 
or employer-owner" with a main occupation as "[m]anager, president and director of an industrial, 
commercial or service provider company," and that he derived R$311,448 in taxable income from I I The Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence demonstrating that his 
income from I I is for his work as a Director of Photography. The record does 
not show the nature of the business of _______ or the income derived from that 
business. 
The record includes evidence relating to the Petitioner's work as a photographer with a business, I I Photography. Although the Petitioner argues on appeal that ______ 
is doing business as I I Photography, the record does not include independent evidence 
demonstrating the nature and scope of the business of the income derived 
from the business, and the relationship between the two businesses. The Petitioner did not submit 
sufficient evidence that his compensation stated in the tax return from is based 
on his work in the field of endeavor, a Director of Photography. Without sufficient evidence of the 
Petitioner's compensation as a Director of Photography, we are unable to compare the Petitioner's 
income with the submitted wage data. 
6 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix (stating that it is the petitioner's burden to provide 
geographical and position-appropriate evidence to establish that a salary is relatively high); see also Matter of Price, 20 
l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); 
Skokos v. U.S. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those 
performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) 
(considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
(comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
7 See generally 6 USClS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(2) appendix. 
6 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that although the Director issued a request for evidence on this issue, 
the notice "was irrational and failed to provide a reasonable explanation for the determination that [the 
Petitioner] did not meet this criterion." The Petitioner argues that the Director did not sufficiently 
explain the issues with the submitted evidence. However, the request for evidence points out that the 
income tax return submitted is insufficient evidence as it relates to income from a business, instead of 
a photographer position, and requests evidence of the Petitioner's renumeration in the field of 
endeavor. 
We find that the evidence in the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in his field. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, we conclude that 
the Petitioner's evidence did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h )(3)(x). 
This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's 
commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and 
released musical compilations or performed or participated in theatrical, motion picture, or television 
productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must show that 
the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others 
involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts.8 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not submit evidence to meet the plain language of this 
criterion pointing out that the submitted evidence did not show "commercial successes in the 
performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales." 
Although the Director did not provide analysis of the submitted evidence, we agree that it is not 
sufficient to establish this criterion. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to the artist.I I including a website print out 
indicating a video byl lranked number three as the most viewed videos by Brazilian artists 
with 880,391,002 views; marketing publications for I I related to his iTunes music sales 
and album sales, each recognizing the Petitioner; articles discussin the importance of YouTube 
videos for an artist's success; and YouTube screen shots o video indicating over a 
billion views. While the record includes evidence of commercial success as a 
performing artist, the Petitioner's involvement through direction, photography and production of the 
videos and album covers is not sufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's commercial success as a 
performing artist. The plain language of the regulation does not allow for submission of evidence 
other than box office receipts, video sales, or sales of other recorded media, and that such receipts and 
sales must be attributable to his own work in the performing arts. 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not directly address the criterion or the Director's reasons for concluding 
that he did not establish that he meets this criterion. Therefore, we will consider his claim to this 
8 See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F(2) appendix. 
7 
criterion abandoned.9 We affirm the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner did not demonstrate his 
commercial successes in the performing arts. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 
20 l&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the 
statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal 11), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l){A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. at 658 n.2; see also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att 'y Gen., 401 F.3d at 1228 n. 2; Hristov v. 
Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25692883 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 8, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe , 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a business consultant operating in the area of human resources. He claims he has 
made a profound impact and advancements in the personnel management space in Russian-speaking 
countries and the business culture among post-Soviet countries gradually moving "toward more 
efficient, as well as more humane and ethical operations." He describes his field of endeavor as "the 
field of personnel management consulting." 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the criteria and he had specifically failed to 
satisfy the criteria associated with prizes or awards, published material, original contributions, leading 
or critical role, or high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the 
same five evidentiary criteria. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. 
The Petitioner first takes issue with the Director's application of Matter of Caron International, 
19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988) to his case. The Petitioner alleges the Director applied this 
decision wholesale to documentation under several criteria, but it appears the Director only relied on 
this decision's findings as it relates to recommendation letters he provided under the contributions of 
major significance criterion. The Director indicated they considered the letters, but that such 
correspondence should be supported by more probative material in the record, and that the agency is 
ultimately responsible for determining whether a foreign national is eligible for a benefit. 
We also note that expert opinion testimony does not purport to be evidence as to fact and we should 
evaluate the content of letters to decide whether they adequately support the foreign national's 
eligibility. See id. at 795; see also Matter of V-K-, 24 I&N Dec. 500, n.2 (BIA 2008). While we do 
not agree that the Director applied Matter of Caron International throughout their decision, we do 
observe that they did not explain how some of the letters were not in accord with other evidence in the 
record, or why they found them questionable, which might serve to assuage the Petitioner's objections. 
At any rate, we will address relevant evidence within this decision. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his receipt of the '---------------------' The issuing entity was the _________ of the Russian Federation, and he received this 
accolade in 2017. The Director's analysis under this criterion all points to the evidence not satisfying 
the regulatory requirements, but at the end of the analysis, the Director indicates "the submitted 
evidence meets this criterion." Because the Director's conclusion does not align with the analysis, 
this appears to be a typographical error and we will presume they did not grant this criterion and we 
will make our own assessment. 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner was the recipient of this award and that portion of the requirements are satisfied. 
However, we question whether this accolade is nationally or internationally recognized. The Petitioner 
asserts that because the award was issued by an entity within the Russian government it should be 
considered nationally or internationally recognized. However, the fact that it was issued by an agency 
of the national government does not prove that the award meets the regulatory requirements. The 
record lacks evidence demonstrating its issuance was reported on publicly, and it does not reveal that 
any recognition extended beyond the I 
The Petitioner also compares this award to one issued by the U.S. government. Despite the fact that 
the government issues awards or decorations, that simple fact does not transform it into a nationally 
or internationally recognized item. National and international recognition does not necessarily result 
from the entity that issued the accolade, but through the awareness of it in the eyes of the field 
nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for example, 
but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. As a result, we do not agree with 
the Petitioner that U.S. government-issued accolades automatically conforms to the caliber of awards 
this criterion demands. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary requirements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the 
published material must be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to the Petitioner's work 
in the field under which he seeks classification as an immigrant. The published material must also 
appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. Professional or major trade 
3 
publications are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. To qualify as major media, the 
Petitioner must establish the circulation statistics are high relative to other similar forms of media. 
The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published item's title, date, and author and if 
the published item is in a foreign language, the Petitioner must provide a translation that complies with 
the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying all 
of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided several articles he characterizes as professional or major trade publications. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion expressing 
doubts about the objective nature of much of the evidence. We share some of the Director's concerns 
relating to portions of the Petitioner's evidence under this criterion. For instance, even though 
businessinsider.com is a form of major media, the article the Petitioner provided from this outlet 
reflects it is a A review of that resource's 
affiliated website reveals that "PRWeb is the leader in online news distribution and publicity. It offers 
various online press release packages, enabling users of all kinds to increase the web visibility of their 
news, reach new audiences, stand out in search, and drive traffic to their websites." About Us, Cision 
PRWeb (Feb. 3, 2023), https://service.prweb.com/about/. 
Even ifwe set those concerns aside, the Petitioner states the articles appeared in professional or major 
trade publications. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy reflects that circulation 
figures for other publications are necessary for comparative purposes to enable us to decide whether 
the resources the Petitioner provides are one of the qualifying publication types. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting that 
"[e]vidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics .... "). As the record does not contain circulation statistics in which we 
could compare to their provided resources, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner initially provided his foreign tax documents and consulting contracts. The Director 
found that material did not satisfy the regulation's requirements and in response to their request for 
evidence (RFE) the Petitioner asserted that he earns a certain hourly rate as a business consultant in 
the United States, but he did not identify the evidence that might corroborate those claims. He also 
provided two articles positing that his U.S.-based earnings were significantly higher than the average 
hourly earnings for a business consultant in the articles. 
The Petitioner further agreed with the proposition that comparing his total earnings, as reported in his 
foreign tax returns, with salaries of other management consultants would not provide a fair assessment 
since his total earnings also included his compensation as a business owner. Notably, the Petitioner 
conceded he was unable to locate "any market evidence to show how much management consultants 
earn on an hourly basis in" his home country. Finally, after converting his foreign earnings to U.S. 
dollars, the Petitioner compared those figures with the average hourly earnings listed in the articles. 
4 
Those articles contained salary information for management consultants in the United States. The 
Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains his eligibility under this provision. He claims he established his 
hourly earnings rate in the United States through a copy of his Form 1040-NR, U.S. Nonresident Alien 
Income Tax Return for 2020. We note he did not identify evidence demonstrating these tax forms 
were actually filed and determined to contain accurate figures, nor did he specify what other material 
demonstrates what he earned in the United States as a business consultant that might verify all his U.S 
earnings in 2020 were solely for that service. 
We further note that users policy reflects that we should not evaluate foreign country earnings, 
convert those earnings to U.S. dollars, and use that as a means of comparison. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices). As a result, we do not agree with the method the Petitioner 
proposed in its RFE response. Within the appeal, the Petitioner continues to state his hourly earnings 
rate in the United States, but he again does not specify what evidence corroborates those claims, even 
though he filed the petition in December 2021. 
Ultimately, the Petitioner provided evidence of his earnings in Russia, but he was unable to locate data 
in which we could compare those earnings. And for his U.S.-based earnings, the articles reflect 
average hourly earnings for business consultants. But the plain language of the regulation requires the 
Petitioner to establish his salary is high-or remuneration is significantly high-when compared to 
others in the field. As such, average statistics as a comparison do not meet this requirement. 
Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 
31, 2019) ( agreeing that average salary levels do not allow for an appropriate basis for comparison in 
determining a high salary "in relation to others in the field"). The evidence simply reflected that the 
Petitioner's purported hourly earnings were higher than the average earnings of business consultants 
as a whole rather than demonstrating that the Petitioner commanded high or significantly high earnings 
in relation to others in the field. 
Finally, the record contains two letters claiming what the top consultants earn in the United States and 
in Russia. USCIS policy provides: "the burden is on the petitioner to provide appropriate evidence. 
Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation 
surveys and organizational justifications to pay above the compensation data." Because the salient 
claims within these letters are not corroborated by other evidence in the record, we consider them to 
be inadequate evidence to preponderantly demonstrate the Petitioner's eligibility here. users is not 
required accept primarily conclusory assertions as adequate evidence. Fano v. 0 'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 
1266 (5th Cir. 1987); 1756, Inc. v. The Attorney General of the United States, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
As such, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence necessary under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets five criteria, because his arguments fail on any 
of the three criteria we discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed elements. As the Petitioner 
cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve 
5 
our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it 
unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); 
see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative 
issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 8, 2024 In Re: 29534724 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a violin restorer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( 1)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner proposes to continue to work as a violin restorer in~I--~IMassachusetts. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied the criteria listed below: 
• Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i); 
• Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ii); 
• Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi); 
• Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii); and 
• Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner claimed and submitted 
evidence in support of the additional criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), published material about 
the individual in certain media. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfied two criteria relating to receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized awards for excellence and high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services. However, for the reasons discussed below, we do not agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the awards criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the 
Director ignored all of the evidence and asserts that she meets six of the evidentiary criteria. After 
2 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that she does not meet the requisite three 
criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification. 1 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i). 
To fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she not only received prizes or awards, 
but also that they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. 
However, we disagree and withdraw the Director's conclusion. Although the Petitioner documented 
her receipt of prizes or awards, she did not submit sufficient documentary evidence establishing that 
that they were nationally or internationally recognized for excellence. When determining whether an 
individual has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence 
in the field of endeavor, we consider factors such as: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; 
the national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and the number of 
awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
In su ort of this criterion the Petitioner submitted co 1es of her two certificates from the D 
a rintout 
about letters confirming that she obtained such awards, and an article from the~----~ 
However, the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish that they are nationally or 
internationally recognized awards for excellence. Although the Petitioner submitted background 
information regarding the awarding entity, she has not submitted evidence about their level of 
recognition. 2 For example, she submitted one article from the local section of theI I 
which states that the Petitioner "received a double certificate of merit, one for tone and one for 
workmanship, for the cello she entered a~ 13 The article 
does not provide any additional information about the certificates to establish that they are nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence. Without more, the Petitioner has not 
met her burden of proof and established the requisite level of recognition of her certificates. 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner maintains that she meets this criterion based on membership with the~------~ 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered the record in its entirety. 
2 The regulation specifically requires national or international recognition ofthe prize or award; the reputation of the awarding 
entity does not suffice. The USCIS Policy Manual acknowledges this distinction, indicating that "[c]ertain awards from well­
known national institutions" "may" qualify under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See generalzv 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l ), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 National or international media coverage is one possible measure of the national or international recognition of a prize 
or award. See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F .2(B)(l ). 
3 
membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts 
as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 
While the Petitioner provided a letter from the president of I I she did not submit their 
constitution or bylaws, or other documentation showing their official membership requirements. We 
acknowledge that the president's letter and the I I website outlines the rigorous process to 
become a member, including that candidates must have at least nine years of professional experience 
and that they must submit a sample of their work which is reviewed and evaluated by the Board of 
Governors. However, neither the letter nor the website indicate thatl !requires outstanding 
achievements of their members. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate she fulfills this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field/or which classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To determine whether the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the plain language of this 
criterion, we first determine whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535 
(2012) (holding that articles about the Iranian Table Tennis Team which only briefly mentioned the 
person were not about him.); see also Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nevada 2008) 
( concluding that articles focusing on a character played by the person or the show he performed in 
were not about the person). Published material that includes only a brief citation or passing reference 
to the person's work is not "about" the person. Second, we determine whether the publication qualifies 
as a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media publication. In evaluating 
whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, 
relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the 
relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 5 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director ignored this criterion, and we agree. She asserts 
that she meets it due to the article in the local section ofthel labout her winnin the 
awards. Specifically, the article states that she won two certificates from the~----.----------1 
land that her instruments are owned by several members of the I I While the article briefly mentions the Petitioner, we cannot conc....lu_d_e-th_a_t_i_t_i_.s 
"about" her within the meaning of the criterion. Further, the Petitioner has not established that it is a 
major media publication. While the Petitioner provided information about the I I 
including its circulation information from 2009 to 2015, she did not offer circulation data for 2018, 
the year the article was published, or provide comparative circulation statistics or other evidence to 
demonstrate that thel Iis major media. 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(B)(l). 
5 Id. 
4 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe individual's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner asserts that she qualifies for this criterion based on her article inl land states 
that it "is indeed a major trade publication" as "it is the "only monthly magazine for stringed 
instruments."" While the Petitioner has provided information aboutl Iincluding its intended 
audience, the fact thatl lmay be the only monthly magazine for stringed instruments does not, 
by itself: establish it is a major trade publication. Further, we are not required to rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher and "we may require more than the publication's own say-so 
that it is 'major."' Cf Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D.N.J. 2021) (citing Braga v. 
Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) aff'd, 317 F. 
App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that we did not have to rely on a company's self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media)). 
Regarding the Petitioner's claim that her article is scholarly, outside of academia, we consider a 
"scholarly article" to be written for learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or 
demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. Here, the Petitioner has not established that her article was written for 
learned persons. Instead, it appears to be a "how-to" article about a manual method of recording 
arching profiles on violins. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361; Matter of 
Otiende, 26 I&N Dec. 127, 128 (BIA 2013). For all of the above reasons, the Petitioner has not 
established that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that she not only played a leading or critical 
role, but also that the organization or establishment for which she played that role is recognized as having 
a distinguished reputation. The plain language ofthe regulation requires the organization or establishment 
to have a distinguished reputation, defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting 
an eminent person."6 
On appeal, the Petitioner points to the article in the local section of the I I as "objective, 
documentary evidence" of the distinguished reputation ofher employer, I I Specifically, the 
Petitioner emphasizes that the article states thatl l"cellos sell for $50,000." However, this 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate that the company is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. The Petitioner does not provide evidence to establish the significance of selling cellos for 
$50,000 and explain how it demonstrates that the company has a distinguished reputation. Without more, 
the evidence is insufficient to establish that the company has a distinguished reputation as required by the 
5 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Therefore, the Petitioner has not established that she meets this 
criterion. 
B. 0-1 Approval 
The record reflects that the Petitioner previously received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants ofextraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf ofthe Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard - statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Sunlift Int'l v. Mayorkas, et al., 2021 WL 3111627 (N.D. Cal. 
2021); Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of 
Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajj'd, 
905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating 
the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a 
district court. Even if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an 
individual, we are not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration 
petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 
2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. We have long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter o_fPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work as a violin restorer is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field and are one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 8, 2024 In Re: 29504778 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a human rights policy officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied any ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria, ofwhich she must meet at least three. The matter 
is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if: they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and, their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011).) 
The Petitioner claims to have worked as a human rights policy officer in Uruguay, and the record 
reflects that she co-founded! Ia non-governmental organization for open government, 
open data, transparency, freedom of information, and participation using civic technology. The 
Petitioner intends to continue working in the fields ofhuman rights and technology as a senior program 
manager in the United States. Since she does not claim to have a one-time achievement, she must 
submit evidence meeting at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner met only two of the claimed criteria: 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), authorship of scholarly articles, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), 
performance in leading or critical roles for organization or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. The record supports the Director's determination that the Petitioner satisfied these two 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the Director's decision was erroneous, and maintains 
that she also meets the criteria related to lesser awards, judging the work of others, and original 
contributions of major significance in the field. 1 
To meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), a pet1t10ner must show evidence of their 
participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied 
field of specification for which classification is sought. 2 The Petitioner claimed eligibility under this 
criterion based on her service as a juror for.__ __________ ____, a regional hackathon for 
developing civic open data-based technology apps organized by non-governmental organizations in 
multiple Latin American countries, and as a reviewer for the I I an annual award 
given to state or public bodies in Uruguay for excellence at the national level in developing projects, 
programs, and innovations that promote transparency within the Uruguayan government and society. 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion because 
she "did not support evidence showing the names of the participants evaluated by [her], their level of 
expertise, the specific competitive categories [she] judged, and the significance and magnitude of the 
competition." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her evidence in support of this criterion was not 
1 The Petitioner has not pursued her initial claim that she could satisfy the criterion relating to published materials under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 
properly considered, and argues that the Director's comments constitute "prohibitive novel substantive 
requirements" that contradict the plain language of the regulation. 
Upon review, we agree with the Petitioner's assertions. The Petitioner submitted letters attesting to 
her service as juror and reviewer for the above competitions, which clearly describe her judging 
activities and describe with specificity whose work and what type of work she judged. The Petitioner 
also provided copies of published press releases and articles regarding the nature of these events. In 
the denial, the Director did not acknowledge these documents or explain why they were insufficient. 
When denying a petition, the Director must explain in writing the specific reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3(a)(l)(i). This explanation should be sufficient to allow the Petitioner a fair opportunity to 
contest the decision and to allow us an opportunity for meaningful appellate review. See, e.g., Matter 
ofM-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 1994) (finding that a decision must fully explain the reasons for 
denying a motion to allow the respondent a meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on 
appeal). Here, the Director's decision did not satisfy this requirement. 
In addition to not evaluating the Petitioner's documentary evidence, the Director also concluded that 
"without independent objective evidence that the activities were consistent with sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top level of your field, the evidence contains no probative value." 
The nature of the Petitioner's judging duties would be a matter for discussion in the final merits 
determination. As discussed above, where a petitioner provides qualifying evidence satisfying the 
initial evidentiary criteria, we will determine whether the record shows sustained national or 
international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian, 596 F.3d 1115. 
Upon de novo review ofthe letters and supporting documentation the Petitioner provided, we conclude 
she established by a preponderance of the evidence that she has judged of the work of others in the 
same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. Therefore, the Petitioner has 
met the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Petitioner satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process described in Kazarian and has overcome the basis for the denial of her petition. 
Accordingly, we will withdraw the Director's decision. Because the Petitioner has met the initial 
evidence requirements of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility 
claims relating to the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, granting the 
third initial criterion does not suffice to establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks or 
establish that the record supports the approval of the petition. 
USCIS must now determine whether the record establishes sustained national or international acclaim 
and recognized achievements sufficient to place the Petitioner among the small percentage at the very 
top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. The Director did not reach that finding, and we decline to make the final merits 
determination in the first instance. We will therefore remand the matter. On remand, the Director 
should evaluate the evidence and consider the petition in its entirety, including the evidence submitted 
on appeal, to make a final merits determination. 
3 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 8, 2024 In Re: 29547038 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an equestrian athlete trainer and rider, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by meeting at 
least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The matter is now before us on 
appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of the individual's sustained national or 
international acclaim, as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been 
recognized in the field. Section 203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recognition of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). If a petitioner can show that one or more of the 
evidentiary criteria are not readily applicable to their occupation, then they may submit evidence that 
is comparable to the required evidence. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an equestrian rider and trainer specializing in the sport of show jumping. He intends 
to continue to compete in show jumping events in the United States, as well as train young horses to 
compete in those events. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met only one of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his participation as a judge of the work 
of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner continues to assert that he also meets the evidentiary 
criteria relating to receipt of prizes or awards received as an equestrian rider, published material about 
him in major trade publications, original contributions of major significance to his field, and a leading 
or critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation in the field. 1 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude that he does not meet the requisite three 
criteria, and thus does not meet the initial evidentiary requirements for the requested classification. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to satisfy this criterion. 
However, we disagree and withdraw the Director's conclusion on this criterion. 
1 While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have reviewed and considered the record in its entirety. 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in his field of endeavor. The Petitioner 
submitted evidence of numerous awards and show placements that he has received throughout his 
career, including photos of trophies, lists of competition results, information about horse show events 
in which he com eted media articles letters of endorsement, and letters from the '------------' ~---------------------~· The Director dismissed lists showing the 
Petitioner's placement results and did not to give evidentiary weight to photos of trophies that do not 
depict the Petitioner's name. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the letters from theI I 
.____________ ____. letters of endorsement, media articles, and competition records serve 
to verify his achievements. 
While the trophies may not identify him 
by name, the competition results, letters of endorsement, and 
media articles corroborate his claims ofreceiving the awards corresponding to the trophies. Moreover, 
the placement results and awards' recognition are also corroborated by the letters of endorsement and 
media articles. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To determine whether the Petitioner has submitted evidence that meets the plain language of this 
criterion, we first determine whether the published material was related to the person and the person's 
specific work in the field for which classification is sought. The published material should be about 
the person, relating to the person's work in the field. See Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d 535 
(2012) (holding that articles about the Iranian Table Tennis Team which only briefly mentioned the 
person were not about him.); see also Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2008 WL 106997512 (D. Nevada 2008) 
( concluding that articles focusing on a character played by the person or the show he performed in 
were not about the person). Published material that includes only a brief citation or passing reference 
to the person's work is not "about" the person. Second, we determine whether the publication qualifies 
as a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media publication. In evaluating 
whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, 
relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the 
relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media). 2 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion and highlights sections from articles in 
several publications, including the 
I I As noted by the Director, some ofthe articles contain only 
competition results and brief descriptions of the events. While some of the articles briefly mention 
the Petitioner, we cannot conclude that it is "about" him within the meaning ofthe criterion. Moreover, 
a few of the articles, including the I !article, did not list an author, and therefore did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion. Others noted that they were an "Edited Press Release," prepared by an 
3 
organization with which the Petitioner was affiliated in order to promote the organization and its 
members. Such marketing materials are not generally considered to be published material about a 
petitioner.3 Furthermore, while the Petitioner provided information about.__ _____ __. including 
its Media Kit 2022 in support of it being a major trade publication, we are not required to rely on the 
self-promotional material of the publisher and "we may require more than the publication's own say­
so that it is 'major."' Cf Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 185 (D.N.J. 2021) (citing Braga 
v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007) ajf'd, 317 
F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that we did not have to rely on a company's self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status as major media)). 
In addition, in response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner provided additional 
articles, including an article from the~--------~however, these articles were published 
after the filing date. A petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing a petition. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b)(1). 
For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
To satisfy this criterion, a petitioner must establish that not only have they made original contributions, 
but that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For example, a petitioner 
may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably 
impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance. 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
In the decision, the Director acknowledged that the reference letters submitted by experts and others 
in the field showed that the Petitioner has been successful but concluded that the letters lacked 
specificity regarding the originality of his training methodology and its influence on the field of 
equestrian sports. The Director also noted the lack of documentary evidence in the record to 
substantiate the writer's statements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the reference letters include details concerning his training 
method and its originality, and that the Director erred by not giving the letters adequate consideration. 
The reference letters all indicate that the Petitioner's training method focuses on the horse's state of 
mind and that it is all about the well-being ofthe horses. For instance, the letter from I I 
states that the Petitioner "ensures his horses are happy in their work and builds a strong relationship 
with his horses" and that his training method "is quite different from the typical training philosophy 
of using force and aggression to train a horse." Moreover, the letter froml lstates 
that the Petitioner "has developed routines and training exercises that are unique and successful to 
develop these young horses into successful grand prix champions." The letter further explains that 
show jumping horses in the United States are usually purchased in Europe as they are "ready to go" 
horses and, therefore, having the Petitioner in the Unites States is so important to the equestrian 
4 
I industry because it adds "a great priority to the industry's long-term success that the U.S. start to spend 
the many millions of dollars to buy a top horse here in the U.S. and not in Europe." However, the 
letters do not establish that he has created an original method of training that has contributed to the 
broader show jumping or equestrian community. Nor do they show that the results ofhis training have 
been so impactfol that they have been of major significance to the field. Moreover, we observe that 
lettrs indicate that as a result of the Petitioner's training methods, three horsesj 
and_ Ihave found outstanding success in competitions. While this evidence shows 
that the Petitioner has contributed to the advancement of these horses under his tutelage, it does not 
establish that he has made a contribution of major significance to the overall field of equestrian sports 
or training. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director should have considered his claim under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) because there is no tangible proof of his training method, and therefore, the 
reference letters analyzed above should be considered as comparable evidence. This argument was 
initially made in response to the Director's RFE, which states that "[g]enerally, an original 
contribution is research, techniques, inventions, or other intellectual property that the petitioner created 
and developed" and that "there is no documentary evidence such as published material, patents, 
copyright or trademark material to corroborate the contributions claimed." While those types of 
documents may be submitted to show the originality of a claimed contribution by some petitioners, 
they are not applicable to all fields or all individuals seeking classification as individuals of 
extraordinary ability as the Director's statement suggests. The plain language of the regulations does 
not specify or limit the type of evidence that may be submitted in support of this criterion. However, 
for that same reason, the comparable evidence provision is itself not readily applicable to this criterion. 
Further, claims that reference letters should be accepted as comparable evidence, as the Petitioner does 
here, are generally not persuasive. We have instead considered those reference letters under the plain 
language of this criterion, as described above. 
For all of the reasons provided above, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has 
not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he not only played a leading or critical 
role, but also that the organization or establishment for which he played that role is recognized as 
having a distinguished reputation. The plain language of the regulation requires the organizations or 
establishments to have a distinguished reputation, defined as "marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence or befitting an eminent person."4 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that "[t]he nature of equestrianism dictates that an organization's 
success is based upon the success of its rider" and that "[ e ]quine organizations are only able to 
establish and build a reputation on the basis that they have superior results in competition." The 
Petitioner references his employer,~-----------------" and asserts that the 
printouts about her successes in the equestrian sport establishes that the company has a distinguished 
5 
reputation. However, we disagree. While the evidence shows that I lhas won many 
prestigious awards in the sport, the evidence does not demonstrate that the company itself has a 
distinguished reputation. Without more, the evidence is insufficient to establish that the company has 
a distinguished reputation as required by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Therefore, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
While the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement 
or evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria, we will nonetheless conduct a final merits 
determination. In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine whether the petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one ofthe small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that their achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
Extraordinary ability is an elite level of accomplishment whose recognition cannot be established 
through meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria alone. The final merits determination is the 
ultimate statutory inquiry of whether the applicant has extraordinary ability as demonstrated by 
sustained national or international acclaim. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, at 395 (2022). 
As noted above, the Petitioner intends to remain in the United States to continue competing in show 
jumping tournaments and events, while also continuing to train riders and horses. In general, 
competitive athletics and coaching are not in the same area of expertise, as they rely upon different 
sets of skills. Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 917-8 (N.D. Ill. 2002). However, we acknowledge 
that many extraordinary athletes have gone on to become extraordinary coaches. Therefore, where a 
petitioner has established recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has sustained that 
acclaim as a coach, we may consider the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of 
sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(A)(2), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
As a show jumping competitor, the record does not show that he has sustained the same level of 
competition success in the equestrian sports competitions. For instance, the Petitioner's FEI pjge, 
submitted in response to the Director's RFE, shows that his worldwide ranking has dropped from 1 
to Moreover, althou h the Petitioner has submitted articles indicatin that he has won first place 
at th_._ _________________________ __. the record lacks evidence 
showing that these wins, individually or cumulatively, help to show sustained acclaim or place the 
Petitioner at or near the top of his field as a show jumping competitor. 
Turning to the Petitioner's work as a trainer, we have considered the reference letters submitted by his 
colleagues and employers when determining the originality and significance of his training methods 
above. As we noted, this evidence was not sufficient to show that he has established an original 
method of training that has impacted or influenced the show jumping or equestrian sports field to the 
required extent. In addition, the record shows that the Petitioner has trained horses that have gone on 
to have success, including.__ ________________ ___. While the record shows that 
his expertise is appreciated by his employer and former employers and has led to general 
6 
improvements in their horses show jumping performance and their businesses, it does not demonstrate 
that he has been recognized for his efforts as a trainer at the national or international level. 
Considering the totality of the evidence and the Petitioner's arguments on appeal, we conclude that he 
has not established that he meets the elite standards to be classified as a show jumping competitor and 
trainer of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for those progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that 
even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ; Visinscaia, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation 
is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 
2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very 
small percentage of prospective immigrants"); see also Hamal v. Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal I), 
No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 
(upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian 
theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals 
fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 17933004 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 9. 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a plant pathology researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We then dismissed the appeal and 
two subsequent motions. The matter is now before us on a third motion filing. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
I. LAW 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, 
we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application oflaw or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence ofnew facts. The requirements of amotionto reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. Additionally, a review of any motion is limited to the bases 
supporting the prior adverse decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Thus, we examine any new 
arguments and facts to the extent that they pertain to our dismissal of the Applicant's second motion 
filing. 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria: judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), original 
contributions of major significance at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because he met the 
minimum of at least three criteria, the Director made a final merits determination and found that the 
Petitioner did not show sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. On appeal, we conducted a de novo 
review of the proceeding and determined that the Petitioner fulfilled only two criteria, judging and 
scholarly articles, and we withdrew the Director's findings for the original contributions of major 
significance and leading or critical role criteria. As the record did not establish that the Petitioner 
complied with at least three criteria, we deemed it unnecessary to provide a final merits determination. 
In his first motion filing, the Petitioner indicated in part 2 on Notice of Appeal or Motion (Fonn I-
290B), that he was filing a motion to reopen and a motion to reconsider of the Director's decision. 
Specifically, he indicated: "Form I-140" (item 2, USCIS Form for the Application or Petition That is 
the Subject of This Appeal or Motion), i (item 3, Receipt Number for the 
Application or Petition), "EB-1" (item 4, Requested Nonimmigrant or Immigrant Classification), 
"02/15/2019" (item 5, Date of Adverse Decision), and "Nebraska Service Center" (item 6, Office That 
Issued the Adverse Decision). The Petitioner's responses to the questions in part 2 on Form I-290B 
reflected his filing of combined motions on the Director's decision rather than on our appellate 
decision. In his second motion, which was filed seven days after his first motion filing, the Petitioner 
stated that "[t]oday we discovered that we had used a Form I-290B that had an expiration date of 
02/04/2020" and submitted a more current edition of Form I-290B with the same responses as the 
prior Form I-290B. Again, the included USCIS form, petition receipt number, decision date, and 
office reflected the Petitioner's filing of combined motions on the Director's decision rather than on 
our appellate decision. 
We dismissed both motions as untimely filed because the motions were submitted 3 5 7 and 3 64 days, 
respectively, after the issuance of the Director's decision.1 In the current motion, the Petitioner asserts 
that "it is an immense and obvious Service error was that USCIS assumed that the motion which was 
the subject of this Dismissal Order referred to reviewing the I-140 decision to deny, rather than the 
appellate decision to deny the appeal."2 However, we did not assume that the motion filings were 
based on the Director's decision denying the petition. Rather, we adjudicated the Petitioner's motions 
based on his responses to the items in part 2 of Form I-290B, which indicated motion filings on the 
1 The Petitioner submits two copies ofthe same decision claiming that "[t]he Notice ofDismissal in Appendix A apparently 
refers to both filings." However, the record reflects that we issued two separate decisions on the same day for each motion 
filing I I andl 
2 The Petitioner also claims that"[v ]ery clearly the I-140form was whatwas being denied on 01/16/2020." On thecontm1y, 
the Director denied FormI-140on February 15, 2019, and we dismissed the appeal(Form I-290B) on January 16, 2020. 
2 
Director's decision denying the underlying petition. 3 Specifically, as indicated above, the Petitioner 
responded on his Form I-290B that he was filing a motion on his "Form I-140" rather than on his Form 
I-290 (appeal), that the receipt number was I (Form I-140) rather than I (Form I-290B), that the adverse decision was "02/15/2019"ratherthan O 1/16/2020 
(the date of our decision dismissing the appeal), and that office that issued the adverse decision was 
the "Nebraska Service Center" rather than the AAO. Accordingly, we adjudicated his motion filings 
based on his responses that conesponded to the Director's decision. 
Moreover, the Petitioner claims that Form I-290B was "only designed to appeal a denied PETITION 
OR APPLICATION" (emphasis in original), and the form makes it "impossible" to file a motion on 
an appellate decision. The Petitioner, however, did not conoborate his assertions with independent, 
objective evidence. Fmihennore, the regulations and filing instructions do not support his claims. 
Every fonn, benefit request, or other document must be submitted and executed in accordance with 
the form instructions. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l ). The instructions for FormI-290B states that the primary 
purpose is to file "[a]n appeal with the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO)" or "[a] motion with the 
[USCIS] office that issued the latest decision in your case (including a field office, service center, or 
the AAO )" ( emphasis added). 4 Furthermore, the instructions for part 2 indicate to" [p ]rovide the name 
of the office that issued the decision that is the subject of your appeal or motion. If you are filing a 
motion on an AAO decision, the correct office is 'Administrative Appeals Office (AAO)"' 
( emphasis added). As demonstrated, the purpose of Form I-290B is not only to appeal denied petitions 
or applications but also to file motions on field office, service center, and AAO decisions. In addition, 
the instructions for part 2 of Form I-290B specifically address the filing of motions with the AAO. 
For the reasons discussed above, we conectly adjudicated the Petitioner's combined motion filing 
based on the inf ormation provided by him. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that we erred in 
dismissing his combined motions as untimely filed as a matter of law or policy under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). Furthermore, the Petitioner did not present new facts or establish how his inability to 
follow form instructions and properly complete form items would warrant reopening the proceeding 
under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not establish that we inconectly applied law or policy. In addition, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate new facts in order to reopen the proceeding. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
3 We retained jurisdiction over the combined motion filings of the Director's decision because we made the latest decision 
dismissingthe Petitioner's appeal. See 8 C.F.R. § 103 .5(a)(l )(ii). 
4 We note thatuscis.govrepeats to use Forml-290Bto file "[a]na ppeal with the Administrative Appeals Office (AAO)or 
"[a] motion with the USCIS office that issued the la test decision in your case (including a field office, service center, or 
theAAO)." 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23134411 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 09, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a law enforcement training officer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in education . Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . Id. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that Petitioner met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. On appeal, we decided 
that while the Petitioner did meet at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, the record did not 
establish his sustained national or international acclaim or that he was one of the small percentage at 
the very top of his field of endeavor. Therefore, we dismissed the appeal. The matter is now before 
us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2)-(3) . 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported 
by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Any motion that does not meet the applicable 
requirements will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.4(a)(4). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a training officer of Brazil's ___________________ 
or who is also an internationally competitive Brazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) athlete. He intends to 
continue developing and providing law enforcement training programs in the United States. 
On motion, the Petitioner reiterates his claim that his I in World Master International 
Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation (IBJJF) Jiu-Jitsu Championship is a is a major internationally 
recognized award and constitutes a one-time achievement as defined at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5. He also 
disputes our decision that he did not meet the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (v), and 
(vi). Because we have already found that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements by 
submitting documentation of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
not readjudicate any of the criteria or the issue of whether the Petitioner's medal constitutes a one­
time achievement. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not 
required to make findings on issues the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"). 
The sole issue on motion is therefore whether the overall record shows the Petitioner's sustained 
national or international acclaim, that his achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, and that he is among the small percentage at the very top of his field of 
endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2); see also Kazarian v. USCIS, 
596 F.3d at 1119-1120. Upon review, we find that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
The Petitioner asserts on motion that our prior decision does not follow the USCIS Policy Manual 
guidance to evaluate the totality of the evidence when making the final merits determination. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. He also disputes 
several of the statements made in our prior decision regarding his documentation and achievements. 
2 
The Petitioner states that we incorrectly found that his I I is related to the field of 
competitive BJJ rather than his field of law enforcement training. To support this claim, he cites 
several instances of U.S. law enforcement agencies training their officers in BJJ as well as his job offer 
from _______ a BJJ school, to help develop a training program for police officers. 
However, the fact that the Petitioner's knowledge ofBJJ is relevant to his work does not establish that 
his competition medal constitutes acclaim in the field of law enforcement training. Furthermore, the 
fact that someone has acclaim as a competitive athlete does not indicate that they are also acclaimed 
for teaching this skill. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(A)(2) ("Competitive 
athletics and coaching rely on different sets of skills and in general are not in the same area of 
expertise.") There is insufficient documentation in the record to establish that the Petitioner's acclaim 
as a law enforcement trainer is specifically related to his knowledge of or ability to teach jiu-jitsu. 
Instead, the record indicates that most of his instruction hours have been spent teaching firearms 
courses, that his highest responsibilities at have centered on developing curricula and training 
policies, and that the course he developed is only partially about grappling or other forms of martial 
arts. 
Furthermore, even if we find that the Petitioner's medal is evidence of acclaim in his field of law 
enforcement training, which we do not, the record does not indicate that it rises to the level of national 
or international acclaim. First, the Petitioner competed as a I The website of the IBJJF, which 
hosted the competition, indicates that this is the I lout of eight belt ranks for adults. 1 
Additionally, the Petitioner competed in the featherweight class rather than the open class, which is 
open to competitors of all weights. 2 The IBJJF website also indicates that unlike other competitions, 
such as the World Jiu-Jitsu Championship, the World Master Championship is divided by age and 
restricted to athletes who are at least 30 years old. 3 The Petitioner's I lwas in the I I I I which is for athletes between the ages of 41 and 45. 4 
The Petitioner's medal was earned in competition that was restricted to a lower belt ranking, which 
presumably excluded the highest-skilled athletes. The competition was also restricted to a specific 
age and weight range, whereas other IBJJF competitions do not have these restrictions for top adult 
competitors. This does not indicate that the medal is a form of national or international acclaim. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2, Appendix: Extraordinary Ability Petitions -First 
Step of Reviewing Evidence (noting that limitations on who may compete may indicate that a prize or 
award is not nationally or internationally significant). 
The record also does not show that the Petitioner's medal was acknowledged beyond the IBJJF 
competition results website and a few social media posts from the See generally 6 USCIS Policy 
1 IBJJF, General System of Graduation 4, https://www.ibjjf.com/graduation-system (available as a PDF download) (last 
visited Jan. 6, 2023). 
2 See IBJJF, Athlete Ranking Information, https://www.ibjjfcom/athlete-ranking-info (stating that open class medals are 
worth more ranking points than weight division medals). 
3 TBJJF, Results, World Master IBJJF Jiu-Jitsu Championship 2020, 
https://www.ibjjfdb.com/ChampionshipResultsic=]PublicResults (showing the Petitioner's competition results divided 
by age group); cf IBJJF, Results, World IBJJF Jiu-Jitsu Championship 2021, 
https://www.ibjjfdb.com/ChampionshipResults PublicResults (showing that adult competitors in the World Jiu-Jitsu 
Championship are not restricted or divided by age). 
4 IBJJF, General System of Graduation, supra at 7. 
3 
Manual, supra at F.2(B)(l) ("It is generally expected that one whose accomplishments have garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim would have received recognition for his or her 
accomplishments well beyond the circle of his or her personal and professional acquaintances.") 
Finally, the Petitioner cites his job offer from as evidence of his acclaim in his 
field, noting the IBJJF evidence thatl lis the highest-ranked BJJ academy in their athletic 
competitions. However, the Petitioner's letter also states that this organization has over a thousand 
BJJ schools. The Petitioner's job offer is not from the national or international I I 
organization, but from one of their many local BJJ schools. It is therefore not apparent that this offer 
constitutes evidence of the Petitioner's national or international acclaim as a BJJ or law enforcement 
trainer. 
While we acknowledge the Petitioner's success at the World Master IBJJF Jiu-Jitsu Championship I I he has not shown that the I I he won is an indicator that he has risen to the very top of 
his field, or that it is a form of national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner also states that our prior decision did not give sufficient weight to 
___________________ the training course that he developed, and 
its impact on his field in Brazil. The course has been included inl !national portfolio of training 
programs since 2018, along with over thirty other courses. The motion cover letter claims that 
was presented to the President of Brazil in 2020, which is evidenced by a photograph of him holding 
the However, none of the documentation regarding which was in the 
record at the time of our prior decision mentions the Petitioner by name except for internal 
documents and letters of support from his superiors in As noted in our prior decision, the 
statutory requirement for the extraordinary ability classification is not influence or success but 
sustained national or international acclaim. While the record indicates thatl lhas been a useful 
and successful course for it does not establish that the Petitioner himself has received sustained 
national or international acclaim for it. 
We stated in our appeal dismissal that the Petitioner did not provide sufficient information to establish 
how his high wages compare with those of other high-paid individuals in or for what activities a 
officer would receive extra pay. On motion, the Petitioner cites documentation in the record 
indicating that in 2018, he was the highest-paid instructor in and the second-highest-paid 
individual in the overall agency, and that he received his extra pay for his work in training and 
curricular development. The Petitioner similarly disputes our characterization of the evidence 
regarding his participation in various international law enforcement conferences, citing a letter from 
his superior stating that being invited to participate in these events was prestigious and a sign of his 
importance to However, while this evidence indicates the Petitioner's success within it 
does not establish his acclaim beyond his agency, which is necessary to show that this acclaim has 
risen to a national or international level. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(l). 
In order to establish eligibility for the extraordinary ability immigrant visa, a petitioner must show 
their sustained national and international acclaim and that they have been recognized in their field 
through extensive documentation. Section 203(b )(1) of the Act. The Petitioner has not done so here. 
4 
The Petitioner has not established that our decision to dismiss his appeal was incorrect based on the 
evidence in the record at the time the decision was made. The motion to reconsider will be dismissed. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3)-(4). 
B. Motion to Reopen 
On motion, the Petitioner submits requests from various Brazilian law enforcement organizations to 
have their personnel attend the course; a 2022 list ofc=] national courses which includes I I and a request to Brazil's Federal Congress to give the Petitioner an award ofrecognition. 
While the Petitioner states that the requests to participate in constitute national recognition in 
his field, none of these letters are addressed to him or mention his name. As stated above, the record 
establishes thatl lis a useful and successful course, and the inclusion ofl lin the 2022 
course list indicates that this agency continues to utilize it. However, this does not establish that 
acclaim for the Petitioner himself has risen to a national or international level or that he is at the very 
top of his field. 
The Petitioner states on motion that he has received an award of recognition from Brazil's Federal 
Congress and provides a letter to support this claim. The May 2022 letter, which is addressed to the 
President of Brazil, is from a Congressman in Brazil's House of Representatives and requests the 
approval of an award ofrecognition for the Petitioner. However, there is no indication that this request 
was approved or that the Petitioner was given this award. We further note that while evidence that 
arises after the time a petition was filed may be used to demonstrate that a petitioner is sustaining their 
national or international acclaim through the time of adjudication, petitioners must establish their 
eligibility as of the time of filing. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
The Petitioner's letter on motion emphasizes that he meets several of the evidentiary criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and that this should establish his national or international acclaim. 
However, these criteria only describe the initial evidence that must be provided, at a minimum, in 
order to establish eligibility. The fact that a petitioner meets these minimum requirements does not, 
in and of itself, establish that they are eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant visa. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra at F.2(B)(2). 
The new evidence provided on motion does not establish that the Petitioner's achievements with 
have translated into a level of recognition that constitutes sustained national or international acclaim 
or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, this new 
evidence does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The motion to reopen will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2), (4). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24734448 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 9, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a figure skating choreographer and coach, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N 
Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 
26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has performed as a figure skating competitor and intends to work as a coach and 
choreographer for figure skaters. She attained her foreign bachelor's degree in physical education and 
began coaching one year after receiving her degree. 
A. Translation Certifications 
The Petitioner initially provided several foreign language documents that were accompanied by 
translations. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3) states: "Any document containing foreign 
language submitted to USCIS shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which the 
translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
The Director issued a request for evidence (RFE) notifying the Petitioner that "[s]everal documents 
were submitted as evidence, but they were not accompanied by a certified English translation in 
accordance with 8 CFR § 103.2(b)(3) and will not be considered probative. Review of the evidence 
revealed the translations do not contain the required language in 8 CFR § 103 .2(b )(3 ). " The translation 
certifications she initially provided were lacking any indication each document was certified as 
complete and accurate. Also absent was the translator's certification that they are competent to 
translate from the foreign language into English. 
When she responded to the RFE, the Petitioner provided certified translations for the documents that 
she submitted with the RFE that appears to comply with the regulation. However, she did not provide 
certified translations for the foreign language materials she submitted when she filed the petition. In 
other words, the initial evidence does not have compliant certifications, but the RFE response 
documentation does. As a result, any initially submitted foreign language evidence carries 
significantly reduced evidentiary value and will not serve as probative to the Petitioner's claims. This 
could explain the issue the Petitioner raises on appeal, that the Director accepted her evidence relating 
to judging the work of others and granted that criterion, but found the evidence for other criteria was 
not accompanied by adequate translation certifications. 1 
1 The Director's RFE indicated the evidence appeared to show she met this criterion, but the evidence was not accompanied 
2 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met seven of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the criterion relating to judging, and we do 
not disagree with that conclusion. But the Director also determined that she had not satisfied the 
criteria associated with: 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Original contributions; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• Display of the her work. 
The Petitioner also claimed she met the high salary criterion, but the Director did not address those 
claims. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
eligibility for this highly restrictive immigrant classification. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
Because the Petitioner's foreign language evidence she initially submitted does not comply with the 
regulation for such material and it is not probative, we will not address any of that content unless the 
Petitioner remedied that shortcoming in her RFE response or on appeal. The Director first noted some 
of the Petitioner's evidence was subject to this translation deficiency. The Director further noted the 
lack of reliability relating to evidence originating from Wikipedia. Next the Director took issue with 
the context of the memberships, as they appeared to be relating to her time as a competitor but not as 
a skating coach and choreographer. Additionally, the Director noted the Petitioner did not establish 
that the associations require outstanding achievements of their members. And finally, they found that 
the record lacked bylaws for the groups or other evidence of membership requirements to show the 
requisite level of achievement are a condition of membership. 
by a proper translation. The Director appears to have accepted her additional RFE evidence as sufficiently remedying any 
reservations they had, and they granted that criterion. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner addresses some of these elements, but she does not remedy the lack of 
material relating to membership requirements for any association she claimed. The regulation 
informed the Petitioner of this requirement, the Director requested this type of material in the RFE, 
and they also placed the Petitioner on notice of the need to show membership requirements and she 
still has not provided the documentation. We will not presume exclusive membership requirements 
from the general reputation of a given association, as the association's reputation may derive from 
various unrelated factors independent of the exclusive nature of its membership. Because the record 
does not contain the bylaws or other official documentation of the association's membership criteria, 
we cannot evaluate whether the Petitioner's membership claims are qualifying. Thus, the Petitioner 
has not established that she meets the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in her field in 
which she intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent resident. We 
consider these articles within two distinct areas. The first area is within the academic arena in which 
a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is 
written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or 
research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include 
graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article. 
The second area lies outside of the academic arena in which a scholarly article should be written for 
learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge 
or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The second element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of the following: 
(1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major media. 
Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
the publication's intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
(Appendices). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the plain 
language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided an article titled 
The article was posted on the website championat.com in 2021. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. As the Petitioner operates outside 
of academia, she should demonstrate the article was written for learned persons in the field. The article 
does not meet this requirement as it appears intended for those who do not compete in her athletic 
field, and she offers no arguments to the contrary. As the Petitioner has not shown this evidence 
qualifies as a scholarly article, it would serve no purpose to evaluate whether it appeared in a qualifying 
publication. 
Consequently, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets this criterion's requirements. 
4 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner claimed this criterion before the Director but offers no rebuttal of the adverse 
determination on appeal. We consider the claims under this criterion to be abandoned within these 
proceedings. See Matter of Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022) (finding 
arguments not raised on appeal are abandoned). 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Because the Petitioner's foreign language evidence she initially submitted does not comply with the 
regulation for such material and it is not probative, we will not address any of that content unless the 
Petitioner remedied that shortcoming in her RFE response or on appeal. The Director did not directly 
address these claims in their denial decision. In the appeal, the Petitioner claims her work for two 
weeks at a 2019 summer camp. She provided her contract for this work reflecting a payment for 
361,200 Russian Rubles. We note the Petitioner characterizes these two weeks of work as a salary, 
but it appears to be more appropriately considered as remuneration, which must be "significantly 
high ... in relation to others in the field." As evidence in which to compare with this remuneration, 
the Petitioner's appeal identifies salaries as listed on a hiring website. 
Foreign persons who do not earn an annual salary and instead receive earnings on a contract or project 
basis should provide sufficient evidence to allow a calculation of their past earnings over a definite 
period of time. For example, submission of evidence such as a director of photography's earnings 
from a single television commercial or an artist's earnings from the sale of a single painting is usually 
not sufficient to meet a petitioner's burden under this criterion. Here, remuneration illustrating two 
weeks of earnings falls short of meeting the Petitioner's burden of proof. Because the record contains 
insufficient evidence of the Petitioner's past compensation, it is unnecessary that we proceed with an 
analysis of whether her claimed remuneration was significantly high in relation to others in the field. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims she meets six criteria, because her arguments fail on 
any of the four criteria discussed above, that means she cannot numerically meet the required number 
of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on her other claimed elements. As the 
Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements under the published material and 
contributions criteria. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to 
analyze additional grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also 
Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 9, 2024 In Re: 29989351 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that the evidence relating to the Beneficiary was 
sufficient to satisfy at least three of the ten relevant regulatory criteria. We summarily dismissed a 
subsequent appeal, and the Petitioner now files a motion to reopen and reconsider. The Petitioner 
bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 
of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss 
the motions. 
I. LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2) . Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
A motion to reconsider must: (1) state the reasons for reconsideration, (2) be supported by any 
pertinent precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy, and (3) establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to reconsider that does not satisfy these 
requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
After the Director denied the petition, the Petitioner filed an appeal reflecting they would submit a brief 
within 30 days (follow-on brief) and included a generalized statement relating to the Director's decision. 
We summarily dismissed that appeal because the Petitioner's general statement accompanying the appeal 
was not sufficiently detailed to demonstrate the Director erred. We also noted within the appellate 
dismissal that the record did not contain the Petitioner's follow-on brief. Now, the Petitioner files a 
motion to reopen and reconsider of that summary dismissal. 
As our decision on the appeal contained two adverse determinations, we will evaluate the motions in that 
context. First, the Petitioner's motions do not dispute our determination that their statements 
accompanying the appellate filing did not specifically identify any erroneous conclusion of law or 
statement of fact for the appeal. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) requires the filing party to 
make such an allegation, and the failure to do so mandates the summary dismissal of any appeal. Further, 
this is a requirement detailed in the Instructions for Notice ofAppeal or Motion. Each form's instructions 
regulate the designated location for filing the form and any attendant materials. Adherence to a form's 
instructions is mandated within the regulation. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(l). This regulation 
specifically states: 
Every benefit request or other document submitted to DHS must be executed and filed in 
accordance with the form instructions . . . and such instructions are incorporated into the 
regulations requiring its submission. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2) provides in pertinent part: "The affected party must submit the 
complete appeal ... as indicated in the applicable form instructions ...." The instructions for the Form 
I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion state: 
Appeal: Provide a statement that specifically identifies an erroneous conclusion of law 
or fact in the decision being appealed. You must provide this information with the 
Form 1-290B, even if you intend to file a brieflater. 
(Emphasis in original). The lack of a statement adequately detailing such an error is one illustration of 
the Petitioner's failure to adhere to the regulatory requirements for filing an appeal. This shortcoming 
prevents the Petitioner from demonstrating that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application 
of law or policy, and that decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at 
the time of the decision. As a result, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of a motion to 
reconsider relating to this adverse element of our appellate decision. Additionally, because the 
Petitioner did not address this element of the appeal dismissal in their motions, we consider the issue to 
be abandoned for this and any subsequent proceeding associated with the petition, motion or otherwise. 
See Matter ofPougatchev, 28 I&N Dec. 719, 729 (BIA 2023) ( concluding issues that are not meaningfully 
addressed are waived). 
Second, although the Petitioner addresses the second adverse determination in our appellate dismissal 
relating to their submission of a follow-on brief within 30 days, we conclude they again did not adhere to 
the Form I-290B instructions on this issue. Relating to the location filing parties are required to submit 
any follow-on briefs, the instructions for the Form I-290B state: 
2 
For appeals, you must file any brief and/or additional evidence within 30 calendar days 
of filing Form I-290B. Any brief and/or evidence submitted after you file Form 
I-290B must be sent directly to the AAO, even if the appeal has not yet been 
transferred to the AAO. 
For the AAO's mailing address, visit www.uscis.gov/aao. The submission must clearly 
identify the appeal it relates to. 1 
(Emphasis in original). Additionally, the Petitioner filed the Form I-290B indicating they would submit 
their "brief and/or additional evidence to the AAO within the 30 calendar days of filing the appeal." 
(Emphasis added). 
The motions contain new facts and supporting evidence demonstrating the Petitioner mailed the follow-on 
brief to the address listed on this agency's website for the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Phoenix Lockbox associated with FedEx, UPS, and DHL deliveries. Notably, the Petitioner mailed the 
follow-on brief to the address associated with the lockbox instead of "directly to the AAO" as required 
by the Form I-290B instructions listed above. This is a second instance in which the Petitioner did not 
follow the Form I-290B instructions and that shortcoming resulted in a dismissal of their appeal. Even 
though the Petitioner provided new facts and supported those with documentary evidence as a motion to 
reopen, their submission does not demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit, nor does it have the 
potential to change the outcome of our most recent decision. See Coelho, 20 T&N Dec. at 4 73. 
As we noted in our decision on the appeal, 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) provides that an appeal must be 
summarily dismissed if the filing party has not identified a basis for the appeal because they did not 
specifically identify any erroneous conclusion oflaw or statement offact. Because the Petitioner did not 
adhere to the form's instructions by including such a statement attributing error to the Director's decision, 
and because they failed to follow the form's instructions regarding where to submit the appeal brief, we 
conclude that our decision to summarily dismiss the appeal was a correct one. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Although the Petitioner has submitted additional evidence in support of the motion to reopen, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. On motion to reconsider, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy at the time we issued 
our decision. Therefore, the motions will be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
1 AAO is the initialism for this office, the Administrative Appeals Office. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7351305 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 10, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had only met 
one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts she meets two additional criteria and contends that the Director did not 
properly weigh the submitted evidence. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner, a journalist, is currently a contributing writer for'r========r----'and a writer 
and U.S. correspondent for the independent Russian radio station Previous! she 
worked as a radio host forl I in Russia, as a television,...h ............... """""L~-------....1 
an independent television channel in Moscow, and as a writer for.__ __ ___. a Ukrainian daily 
newspaper. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(iii), relating to published material about her in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media. The record reflects that The Guardian and Politico published online articles in 
which the Petitioner discusses her work as a journalist in Russia. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director's determination that this criterion was met. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to authorship of 
scholarly articles and performing in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that 
have a distinguished reputation. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the 
Petitioner has not satisfied at least three criterion. 
1 We note that the Director determined that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to the original contributions of major 
significance criterion at 8 C.F.R. ~ 204.5(h)(3)(v), but did not satisfy this criterion. The Petitioner does not contest this 
issue on appeal and therefore we deem the issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A-S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 
2009). 
2 
Evidence of the individual's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner must demonstrate her 
authorship of "scholarly" articles. Outside of the academic arena, a scholarly article should be written 
for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating profound 
knowledge or scholarship. 2 Evidence of scholarly articles published in professional or major trade 
publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on-line or in 
print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and identify who the intended audience of the 
publication is. 3 
The Director acknowledged the Petitioner's contention that "non-academic articles meet this criterion 
if they are written 'for learned persons in the field."' However, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner's published pieces are 'journalistic articles" and that the intended audience o~ I 
I lis "the general public." 
At the time of filin the Petitioner claimed to meet this criterion because one of her co-authored 
articles from was cited in the book,.__ ___________ ___. written 
by.__ ___ __. The Petitioner stated that the article "so qualifies as authorship of a scholarly article 
because of its citation in I I's book" and noted that the book, a New York Times bestseller, 
"undoubtedly qualifies as major media." The Petitioner did not claim that her article was scholarly 
based on its intended audience, explain how being cited in I O ts book meets that threshold, or 
indicate that I lis itself a professional or major trade publication or other type of 
major media publication. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided a letter froml I publisher of.__ _______ ----,, 
who described the quarterly magazine as "a premier platform for political thought . . . read in the 
corridors of government and academia ... and also read by a more general public of subscribers and 
visitors to our website, which publishes new material daily." The Petitioner submitted copies of her 
articles published onl I website, but did not provide evidence that she had been 
published in the print version of the magazine. 
In response to a request for evidence, and on appeal, the Petitioner has provided additional letters from 
staff oft I profiles of the editorial board's members, evidence that another one of 
her articles was referenced in a book, and testimonials from academics and journalists in the field of 
Russian-American politics who state that they read and value the Petitioner's articles. She argues that, 
given the stature of the editorial board and some of her readers, she has established that the intended 
audience of her articles, and of the publication, is learned individuals in the fields of U.S. politics, 
foreign policy, and foreign relations. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not establish the scholarly nature of her published 
articles. While both.__ _______ ~and many of the Petitioner's articles have a focus that may 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/ sites/ default/files/ ocomm/ilink/0-0-0-64 23 .html. 
3 Id. at 8. 
3 
appeal to the interests of those in academia and government, its publisher confirms that its articles are 
intended to be accessible to the general public, and that appears to be particularly true of its online 
articles. The evidence does not establish that the intended audience of the Petitioner's articles is 
"learned persons" in the field. In addition, the Petitioner has not addressed the other element of this 
criterion by submitting evidence to establish that~-------~ is a professional or other trade 
publication, or that it has the circulation to be considered a major medium. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner claims that she has performed in critical roles with both I I Radio and ~-------~ To establish performance in a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that 
a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization 
or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the 
role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 4 
The Director determined that the Petitioner provided sufficient evidence of the distinguished 
reputation of both organizations, but found that the submitted testimonial letters "do not indicate that 
the petitioner's duties were leading for the organization as a whole or that her accomplishments went 
beyond providing contractual services to contribute to the success of the organization." 
We disagree and find that the Petitioner submitted sufficient evidence to establish that she has 
performed in a critical role with~-----~Radio. I ts editor-in-chief has 
submitted letters containing detailed and probative information regarding the Petitioner's role as a co­
host of multiple prime time radio programs, as the radio station's only U.S. correspondent, and as the 
most-read contributor to the radio station's website. Accordingly, the Petitioner has met this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, counsel requests that, if we do not find that she meets the scholarly articles criterion, we 
consider comparable evidence. Specifically, counsel states: 
Petitioner provided a statement clearly explaining why the criteria in 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3) 
don't apply to her case directly. The comparable criterion that Petitioner requests that 
you consider is work in a leading or critical role for distinguished events or productions. 
This is already a regulatory accepted criterion with respect to 0-1 petitions and is 
therefore clearly a recognized basis for consideration in this category. 
The comparable evidence that the Petitioner would like to have considered relates to: her service as a 
witness before a Joint Briefing of the House~---------~; her appearance as a panelist 
on an I IBroadcastin Com an national radio program; her participation in a program at I I Universit at in which she was the featured guest; and her appearance at 
a paneled event of the ~-----~ 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
4 
The Petitioner correctly notes that the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable 
evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to her occupation. A petitioner should explain why 
she has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3), as well as an explanation as to why the evidence she has included is "comparable" to 
that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 5 However, the regulations for this immigrant classification 
do not allow for a petitioner to substitute evidence based on a claim that it is comparable to evidentiary 
criteria found in the regulations for a separate nonimmigrant classification, which is what the Petitioner 
here has requested. 
Further, the Petitioner has not shown why she cannot offer evidence that meets at least three criteria, 
or that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not apply to her occupation. In a letter, the 
Petitioner claimed that six of the ten criteria do not apply to her occupation, but she did not mention 
the other four, which she initially claimed she could meet. Further, her explanations were not 
persuasive. 6 For example, in claiming that the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) does not 
apply to journalism, she notes that "there are many top writers in my field who have not received 
awards for their writing" and states that the editor-in-chief ofl I has not to her 
knowledge won awards for his writing. She also claims, with respect to the judging criterion, that 
"there are many top figures in my field who do not judge competitions" and that she is "not aware of 
prominent competitions" in her field. Addressing the membership and high salary criteria, the 
Petitioner states that she is "not aware of any associations that admit members based on extraordinary 
ability," and states that persons who write for niche publications "receive modest salaries." 
The Petitioner did not adequately support her claims that the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not 
apply to her occupation. The fact that the Petitioner did not provide documentation that satisfies at 
least three criteria is not evidence that a journalist could not do so. Again, the Petitioner initially 
claimed to fulfill four criteria. In addition, the Petitioner did not show how her evidence is "truly 
comparable" to the criteria listed in the regulation. 7 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not establish that she qualifies for additional criteria through the 
submission of comparable evidence. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
5 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
6 Id. (stating that "[g]eneral asse11ions that any of the ten objective criteria described in 8 CFR 204.5(h)(3) do not readily 
apply to the alien's occupation are not probative and should be discounted"). 
7 Id. 
5 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25527965 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 10, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in November 2018, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, 
as required. We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal and five subsequent motions. The matter is again 
before us on a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
combined motions. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided and be supported by affidavits or other 
documentary evidence.1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy.2 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the October 19, 2022, 
dismissal of the Petitioner's fifth motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the earlier 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing 
and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence . INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing 
INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." Id. at 110. 
2 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asserts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter of Cerna, 20 
I&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
denial, and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior stages 
of the proceeding. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement, and no other evidence, asserting his eligibility for first 
preference classification as a martial artist of extraordinary ability. This statement is identical to the 
statement he submitted with his fifth motion. Furthermore, while the statement generally asserts his 
eligibility for an extraordinary ability visa, it does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy 
error in our October 19, 2022 decision. As before, the Petitioner requests that we "advise what kind 
of documents [we] ... accept to prove [his] case." The Petitioner should review our prior five 
decisions, along with the Director's November 2018 decision to understand the evidentiary 
deficiencies in the record. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Therefore, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we 
erred in our October 19, 2022 decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, we will dismiss his 
motion to reopen because he has not provided documentary evidence of new facts related to our prior 
decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7375471 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 11, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a folk singer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner sings Serbian folk music. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that 
she has received a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the 
alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief claiming to meet seven criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence, we conclude that the record does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner argues that she meets this criterion based on her receipt of a "Silver Album" award 
from Radio Television! I a "Plaque" from the Association of Performing Arts (APA), and a 
"Trophy Award" from Hit Parade '85. In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
that she received the prizes or awards, and they are nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting 
the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The record reflects that the Petitioner presented evidence of her receipt of the awards. Although the 
Petitioner explains why she received the awards, she does not demonstrate their national or 
international recognition for excellence in the field. For instance, the Petitioner claims that the Silver 
Album "is for the sale of 25,000 albums which is a substantial number of albums for a country the size 
of Serbia." While the Petitioner references a letter froml I who claimed that the album 
sold "12.500 pieces" and not 25,000, the letter only confirms the receipt of the award without showing 
the field's view as a nationally or internationally recognized award for excellence. 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
2 
Furthermore, the Petitioner asserts that the AP A Plaque "was awarded by the biggest association for 
performing arts," and the Trophy Award "was given to the most popular singers in former 
Yugoslavia." However, the record does not contain, nor the Petitioner reference, any corroborating 
evidence to support her claims. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that the AP A Plaque and Trophy 
Award are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Because the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field, she did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts eligibility for this criterion based on membership with Maestro International 
(MI). In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the association is 
based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 3 
At the outset, the Petitioner did not claim eligibility for this criterion at initial filing. However, in 
response to the Director's request for evidence JRFE), the Petitioner indicated membership with 
Maestro International and provided a letter from I who confirmed the 
Petitioner's membership since 2014. In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner did 
not submit evidence that the association requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged 
by recognized national or international experts. Moreover, the Director indicated that the Petitioner 
did not provide the association's constitution or bylaws. On appeal, the Petitioner contends that 
"USCIS never sought this information in their Request for Evidence and it is therefore unfair for them 
to partially base their decision on the fact that this evidence was not included." However, as the 
Petitioner did not initially claim eligibility for this criterion, she did not explain how the Director could 
have known to request specific evidence for Maestro International. 
Notwithstanding the above, according tol I the Petitioner competed in the festival, ~-----~I 2014," and the jury determined her composition "[a]s the most successful." 
Therefore, the Petitioner "earned the right of membership." However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that winning a folk festival contest is tantamount to an outstanding achievement 
consistent with this regulatory criterion. In addition, as indicated, the Petitioner did not provide 
supporting documentation, such as the bylaws of Maestro International, to corroborate the claims of I I and establish the membership requirements. Moreover, the Petitioner did not show 
that membership is judged by recognized national or international experts. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
3 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material. 4 At initial filing, the Petitioner submitted translations of articles from Commonalty, 
magazinetrendy.net (2), svet.rs, expresstabloid.ba, Sezam Magazine, and serbiamirror.com reflecting 
published material about her and her work. 5 However, with the exception of the articles from 
Commonalty and serbiamirror.com, the Petitioner's translations did not include the required dates 
and/or authors of the material. In addition, the Petitioner provided the translations of two articles from 
unidentified publications, which also did not include the required dates and authors. 
Moreover, in response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner submitted translations of articles from 
grand.online and svetaustralia.com (2). We note, however, that the translation for the article from 
grand.online did not contain the required author of the material. Furthermore, the articles were 
published after the filing of her petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements 
for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of filing and continuing through 
adjudication. See 8 C.F .R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). Accordingly, we will not consider this evidence to determine 
the Petitioner's eligibility in this proceeding. 
In addition, although the Petitioner asserts that "the articles submitted should be viewed in a favorable 
light since they are from publications that have significant national or international distribution," the 
record does not contain evidence to support this assertion, nor does she reference any documentation. 
Further, the Petitioner argues that the Director erroneously determined that she "should have included 
sufficient supporting documentation, such as circulation statistics for other publications to establish 
that the web portals are professional or major trade publications or other major medias [sic] when they 
never asked for such documentation in their Request for Evidence. "6 Moreover, she claims that she 
"was not aware that the USCIS required this documentation and was put in an unfair position." On 
the contrary, a review of the Director's RFE reflects that he specifically indicated: 
To assist in determining that the publications qualify as professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, you may submit evidence indicating: 
• [T]he title, date, and author of the published material. 
• [T]he circulation ( online and/or in print). 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
5 The Petitioner also submitted partial foreign language articles without any English language translations. Any document 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English, certified language translation. See 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(3) 
and 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics and show who the intended audience of the publication is, as 
well as the title, date, and author of the material). 
4 
• [C]omparative circulation data of major publications in the field. 
• [T]he intended audience of the publication. 
Although she submitted two articles reflecting published material about her relating to her work in the 
field, which include the required title, date, and author, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
Commonalty and serbiamirror.com are professional or major trade publications or other major media. 7 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner contends that she submitted recommendation letters reflecting her contributions of 
major significance in the field. In order to meet the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner 
must establish that not only has she made original contributions but that they have been of major 
significance in the field. 8 For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
The record reflects that the Petitioner's recommendation letters confirm her performances and 
recordings. For instance, the letters state that:" the Petitioner's] compositions are broadcasted daily 
on radio and television programs" .__ _____ _,, "[ the Petitioner] recorded three albums for the 
production company gramophone long plays" (Radio Television of Serbia), "[the Petitioner] produced 
two CDs" and "performed at more than 500 musical concerts throught [sic] out the I I and 
Europe" (Grand Production), and "[the Petitioner] has recorded numerous [a]lbums," "recorded with 
some of the biggest recording studios in Serbia," and "has 9 recorded albums" (the Association of 
Performing Artists and Performers of Serbia).9 However, the letters do not establish how the 
Petitioner's performances and recordings are viewed by the field as original contributions of major 
significance in the field. The letters, for instance, do not explain how the Petitioner has significantly 
impacted the field in a major way consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Moreover, the letters praise the Petitioner's skills and talents. For example, "[o]ne of the most 
emotional singers of country and folk music on our program is [the Petitioner]" l I Production), 
"all her songs are of exceptional quality and sought after" and "[the Petitioner] has great vocal skills 
and ranked among the best singers" (Serbian Radio Hour), "[the Petitioner is] a superior singer that 
has lasted for years, [ and] until today, her songs are sought out and listened both in Serbia and in 
America" (Serbian Mirror), "[the Petitioner] is widely renowned for her exquisitely expressive voice 
and deep stylistic understanding of various regional styles of the folk music of the Balkans" ~ I I, and "[ the Petitioner's] expressive voice, high aesthetic standards, wide repertoire, and 
professionalism as a performer make her a central figure in the musical life of the Serbian-American 
community" I l Having a diverse, unique, or special skill set, however, is not 
7 The Petitioner also did not provide evidence establishing that grand.online and svetaustralia qualify as professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9 (finding that although funded and published work may 
be "original," this fact alone is not sufficient to establish that the work is of major significance). 
9 Although we discuss a sampling of letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
5 
a contribution of major significance in-and-of-itself Further, the record must be supported by 
evidence that the Petitioner has already used those skills and talents to impact the field at a significant 
level, which she has not shown. In addition, the letters do not demonstrate how the Petitioner's talents 
and skills have been a major influence in the overall field. 10 
Here, the Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information identifying her original 
contributions and explaining the unusual influence her musical work has had on the overall field. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance in the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. 11 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 12 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitio1er argu
1es eligibility for this criterion based on her roles with Maestro International, Grand 
Production, Production, and Radiol I As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must 
establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to 
establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 13 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate 
that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organizations or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 14 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that she: "has performed for [Maestro International]," "was a 
special guest on the tour of several artists and that together they have done over 500 concerts in former 
Yugoslavia and Europe" and "recorded two compact discs" for Grand Production, "led I I I l's] New Year musical show id O J' and "gain[ed] the coveted position of soloist on 
Radio I t' Although the Petitioner references recommendation letters, previously discussed 
above, which confirm her performances and recordings, the letters do not contain detailed information 
demonstrating that she performed in a leading or critical role as a whole. 15 
10 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the field as a 
whole). 
11 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
12 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din pait 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
14 Id. 
15 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that this is one criterion where letters from 
individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to 
USCTS officers in making this determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that 
6 
For instance, the letters from Maestro International and I I Production did not explain how 
performing at a single event, either at a festival or at a New Year's program, reflected the Petitioner's 
overall leading or critical role to the organizations. Moreover, the letter from Grand Production did 
not establish how her role as a special guest at concerts represented a leading role or resulted in the 
success or standing of the organization. Further, the letter from Radio I ldid not elaborate 
regarding the Petitioner's "soloist status" and how such position indicated a leading role to the station 
overall or elevated the station's status. Here, the lack of specific information does not provide 
probative information to demonstrate the Petitioner's leading or critical roles for the organizations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that any of these organizations enjoy a distinguished 
reputation.16 Although each recommendation letter provided brief background information, the 
Petitioner did not offer any supporting documentation to corroborate the claims. For example, Maestro 
International indicated that it was "established on 2005 -year as a non-partisan, non-profit association, 
and to achieve the objectives in the field of musical creativity and interpretation." Moreover, Grand 
Production asserted that it "is established in 1988 -year the most prestigious production company in 
the Balkans" and "it's viewed [by] over 7,000,000 million [sic] people." Further, I !Production 
claimed that "[ o ]ne can boast that a number of TV shows were produced and broad casted on numerous 
stations across the region ... as well as many records released with a very popular local performers 
of folk music." In addition, Radio I I stated that "the [r]adio and the [t]elevision, are 
broadcasting in 15 different languages" and the programs are watched and listened by 14 million 
people. Again, the Petitioner did not submit corroborating evidence, nor did she demonstrate the 
significance of the statements or figures. Here, the Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, 
showing the field's view of the organizations, how their reputations compare to similar establishments, 
or how their successes or accomplishments relate to others, signifying a distinguished reputation 
consistent with the regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that she satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We find that the Petitioner does not satisfy the criteria relating to awards, memberships, published 
material, original contributions, and leading or critical role. Although she submits evidence for two 
additional criteria on appeal, relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and artistic display at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), we need not reach these additional grounds. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these 
issues. 17 Accordingly, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the 
aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim 
and recognition required for the classification sought. 
specifically addresses how the alien's role for the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
16 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10-11 (defining Merriam-Webster's Dictionary definition 
of"distinguished" as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
17 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like comts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
7 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has sung and performed Serbia folk music, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7303422 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 11, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a seed capital and entrepreneurial business, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. In addition, 
the Director found that the Petitioner did not establish the Beneficiary's intent to continue to work in 
her area of expertise. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as an associate director of the I I I since October 2016. .___ _____ ___. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met two of the evidentiary 
criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Beneficiary reviewed papers relating to a research topic 
for a journal and authored scholarly articles in professional publications. As such, we concur with the 
Director's decision regarding the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
In addition, we find that the Beneficiary's position with the Petitioner, which has a distinguished 
reputation, fulfills the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Because the 
Petitioner has shown that the Beneficiary satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(6 )(I )(A) of the Act). 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has demonstrated, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, 2 that 
she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that she has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary's "work in the field ofl I research was not as a 
researcher." Specifically, the Petitioner contends that "the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability was in 
her success in identifying, analyzing and advising other researchers on developing I I 
technologies and bringing them to market." The record reflects that the Beneficiary received her 
bachelor of science in zoology from I I in India (2002), her master of science 
in molecular genetics from the University ofl , lin the United Kingdom (2004), and her 
doctor of philosophy in genetics froml • • c=:52010). According to the 
Beneficiary's curriculum vitae, she held various student positions at D and D such as 
research intern, research assistant, graduate fellow, and graduate assistant from 2001 to 2010. Further, 
at the I !Institute for~ Development, she served as a development coordinator, postdoctoral 
scientist, and scientist from 2010 to 2016.4 Currently, the Beneficiary works for the Petitioner as an 
associate director for thel I 
As indicated above, the Beneficiary began her academic and professional career as a scientist and 
researcher and then transitioned to managing research in a management role. While the Petitioner 
demonstrated the transitional relationship between conducting research and then managing research, 
the Beneficiary satisfied three criteria based on a combination of these fields. Accordingly, we will 
evaluate the totality of the evidence to determine whether the Beneficiary received recent national or 
international acclaim in the field of scientific research and sustained that acclaim in research 
management. 5 As mentioned above, the Beneficiary judged others within her field, authored scholarly 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 The Beneficiary also volunteered in development and marketing at the I I Institute from 2016 to 2018. 
5 The AFM provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and 
has sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider 
the totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary 
ability such that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
3 
articles, and performed in a leading role. The record, however, does not demonstrate that her 
achievements are reflective of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 
H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others as a researcher, an evaluation of 
the significance of her experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required 
extraordinary ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 6 
The Petitioner provided a letter from ~---------~I lfor 
Frontiers, who stated that the Beneficiary "had served as a Guest Associate Editor forl I I l .. for the scientific journal Frontiers in Genetics from February 2017 until April 2018."7 
However, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's editing for al I places her 
among the small percentage at the very top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner 
did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's limited editing experience compares to others at the 
very top of the field. In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she received significant 
attention from the field based on her editing of the research topic. 
As it pertains to the Beneficiary's experience as a judge of the work of others as an associate director, 
the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted several recommendation letters that indicated that 
judging the work of others is inherent to the Beneficiary's occupation as an associate director. For 
instance,! !claimed that the Beneficiary "serves as an individual judge of her peers 
in thel !field every day" and "[b]eing a judge is an integral part of her ~he evaluates and identifies the most promising~---------~·" Moreover, D 
L__J asserted that the Beneficiary "is obviously a good judgel of her piers in the field as the 
Commission has approved over $145million [sic] dollars in fonding projects, which have all 
had successful outcomes." Further,I I opined that the Beneficiary 'judges the work of 
other scientists on a daily basis as that is the crux of her position, at stake is not a publication, but 
fonding vital to a project." In addition, I I stated that the Beneficiary "judges the 
research to determine whether it hasl !viability and advises whether the State of I ~ should fond them." Also, I !indicated that the Beneficiary "provides unique 
expertise and judgment that helps move technologies forward." Although the letters reflect that 
judging work is a characteristic, as well as a requirement, of her position, the letters do not contain 
specific, detailed information regarding the significance of her judging experience. Instead, the 
authors make broad statements, such as "have all had successful outcomes," without showing how the 
Beneficiary garnered national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's approximate one year editing 
experience and over two years job-related reviewing duties contribute to a finding that she has a 
AFM ch. 22.22(i)(l )(C) ( emphasis in original). 
6 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
7 In response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner also submitted two requests for the Beneficiary to review 
applications and judge a scientific award. However, the Petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the 
immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(l). Here, the judging requests occurred after the filing of the petition. Moreover, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary actually participated in the judging process. 
4 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress or indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from 
the field based on her work as a guest associate editor or as a reviewer of technologies or projects. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary received acclaim as a researcher and 
maintained that recognition as an associate director. 
Moreover, serving as a guest associate editor or performing the job duty of reviewing projects does 
not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of her field. Without evidence that sets the Beneficiary apart from 
others in her field, such as evidence that she has a consistent history of completing a substantial number 
of review requests relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or 
publications, chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, or reviewed acclaimed projects, 
the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's judging experience places her among "that small 
percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the publication of her research does not automatically place one at the top of the field. 8 As 
a researcher, the Petitioner provided evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored eight articles 
from 2009 to 2015. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that this publication record is 
consistent with having a "career of acclaimed work." See H.R. Rep. No. at 59. Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not establish that her authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the very 
top of her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the significance 
of her authorship of eight articles in a six year period or how her publications compare to others with 
similar years of experience who are viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary authored any materials in journals 
or other professional publications as a research manager or associate director. The commentary for 
the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 9 Here, the Beneficiary's absence of 
written work in the past four years does not reflect this very high standard, nor does it support a finding 
that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary garnered acclaim as a researcher 
and continued that recognition as an associate director. 
As authoring scholarly articles is often inherent to the work of scientists and researchers, the citation 
history or other evidence of the influence of her articles can be an indicator to determine the impact 
and recognition that her work has had on the field and whether such influence has been sustained. For 
example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid 
evidence that her work has been recognized and that other researchers and scientists have been 
8 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
9 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 2. 
5 
influenced by her work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate 
pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. Here, the record indicates that the Petitioner provided 
evidence reflecting that the Beneficiary's articles cumulatively garnered a few dozen citations, 
including four articles that did not receive any citations. 10 
While the Beneficiary's citations, both individually and collectively, show that the field has noticed 
some of her work, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a 
level of interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to the Beneficiary's 
research represent attention at a level consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of 
her field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2).11 
As it pertains to her position as an associate director, the Petitioner demonstrated that the role itself is 
leading. However, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's role at a single organization 
represents sustained national or international acclaim or a "career of acclaimed work in the field." See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and H.R. Rep. No. at 59. Moreover, while the Petitioner submitted 
reference letters that discussed the Beneficiary's responsibilities and accomplishments, they did not 
show that her associate director role resulted in widespread acclaim from her field, that she drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers her to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. Further, her reference letters made broad assertions without providing specific, 
detailed information establishing that the Beneficiary received sustained national or international 
acclaim based on her role as an associate director. 
For instance].__ ____ ____.[ executive director for the Petitioner, listed the Beneficiary's job duties, 
praised her performance, and indicated two international conferences "that specifically invited her to 
present." However,I I did not show how being invited to two conferences demonstrates the 
Beneficiary's extensive recognition by the field. In fact, I I CEO for the Petitioner, 
indicated that "[i]t is true that [the Beneficiary's] name will not be associated with the research or any 
company that may be formed, this is the nature of her job." Although the Beneficiary performed in 
the expected role of an associate director as outlined in the recommendation letters, the Petitioner did 
not show that she garnered sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. 
In addition, a~ the Petitioner argues for the Beneficiary's role at the I I Institute for D 
DevelopmentL__J, the Petitioner provided recommendation letters that discussed the Beneficiary's 
position as a researcher, which neither indicated a leading or critical role, nor evidenced sustained 
national or international acclaim. For exampleJ I director and CEO ofi I identified 
the Beneficiary's involvement in various research and projects but did not elaborate on any attention 
she received from the field or how her role placed her among the small percentage at the very top of 
the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Again, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary 
10 See screenshots from scholar.google.com. 
11 The Petitioner also submitted evidence of the Beneficiary's poster presentations at two conferences in 2015 and 2016, 
including three requests to speak at conferences after the filing of her petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.1 (b )(1 ). However, the 
Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's presentations or participation resulted in sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates evidence of being among the small percentage at the very top of the field. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
6 
garnered national or international acclaim as a researcher and sustained that recognition as an associate 
director. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. Here, for 
the reasons discussed below, we find that the evidence neither fulfills the requirements of any further 
evidentiary criteria, nor contributes to an overall finding that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of her field. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner provided recommended letters that summarized the Beneficiary's 
work and contributions as a researcher and associate director. The letters, however, do not contain 
sufficient information and explanation to show that the Beneficiary is viewed by the overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, as being among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Further, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary 
has made impactful or influential contributions in the greater field reflecting a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field," garnering the required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. 
No. at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots from four websites reporting on the findings from one 
of the Beneficiary's articles in 2012. The material, however, speculates on the possible impact the 
research may have on the field. For example, the coverage indicates "this work could help lead to 
noveU !therapies ... , which may stem from roblems with develo ment," "I I from corpses 
might play a key role in developing fuc'r'-'-....._ __ __...LI.J.I..J...<lJUJJ......,._....<J..LJI.LL.-~----1 ••• , could be collected 
from cadavers and reprorammed into.__ __________ __., which could then develop into I' While the Beneficiary's research showed promise in 2012, the Petitioner 
did not establish how her work already qualified as a contribution of major significance in the field, 
rather than prospective, potential impacts. 
Moreover, the reporting did not mention the Beneficiary- Instrd, the screenshots refer and quoteD I I neurologist and chief operating officer a Although the Beneficiary contributed 
to the research and article, the media reports do not single her out or acknowledge her for her findings. 
Here, the Petitioner did not establish that this media coverage reflects the Beneficiary's status as an 
individual who has garnered "sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation." See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more 
accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, we find the record insufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage 
at the top of her field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
7 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 12 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, 
with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
12 As the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act 
we need not consider whether she intends to continue working in her area of extraordinary ability under section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(ii). See INS v. Bagamasbad. 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5938070 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 11, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tennis academy, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of extraordinary ability 
in the arts as a curator and historian of expressive realism art. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the 
Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinaiy ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish that the Beneficiary met 
any of the ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), of which three are required. On 
appeal, although we concluded that the Beneficiary met the judging criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), we affirmed the Director's decision that she did not meet the initial 
evidence requirement of at least three criteria. 1 We subsequently denied the Petitioner's motion to 
reopen, as well as a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. 
The Petitioner has now filed its third motion. It asserts that we did not consider additional evidence 
submitted with its previous appeal and motions. In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to 
establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon 
review, we will dismiss the motion. 
I. LAW 
The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion to 
reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy and 
that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the 
decision. We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the 
requested immigration benefit. 
1 See Matter of A-T-A-, ID# 737937 (AAO Dec. 19, 2017) 
II. ANALYSIS 
As was noted in our previous decision, the Petitioner has again not submitted a statement about 
whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of any judicial 
proceeding, as required under 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(iii)(C). It has therefore not met the filing 
requirements for a motion. In the alternative, for the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not 
established that we should grant its motion to reconsider. 
With respect to the criterion for the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly articles under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), the Petitioner highlights an essay written by her and published in what it 
describes as an art catalogue. The Petitioner asserts that we "failed to even mention this criteria [sic]." 
A review of our previous decision shows that we considered the referenced evidence and provided a 
detailed analysis of the reasons why it was neither scholarly nor published in a professional or major 
trade publication or other major media. 2 
Turning to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), which requires evidence of the Beneficiary's 
leading or critical role for an organization or establishment having a distinguished reputation, the 
Petitioner asserts that we failed to consider evidence of the Beneficiary's appointment to lead a large 
art donation for thel !Foundation. Here again, review of our previous decision reveals 
that this evidence about the foundation and her role within it was thoroughly reviewed and analyzed. 
In addition, the Petitioner repeats the vague assertion in its previous motion regarding "other roles" 
held by the Beneficiary, but does not point to specific evidence in the record or a law or policy that 
was misapplied in our previous decision. 
While the Petitioner farther asserts in its brief that the Beneficiary meets six of the evidentiary criteria, 
it provides no farther legal or factual arguments regarding an additional three criteria beyond those 
already discussed above. It has therefore not established that our previous decision regarding the 
criteria relating to the Beneficiary's membership in associations, original contributions, or display of 
her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases was based on an incorrect application of law or policy, 
or was incorrect based upon the evidence in the record. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider this matter is dismissed because it does not meet the motion 
filing requirements under 8 C.F.R. § 103.4(a)(l)(iii)(C). In the alternative, the motion is dismissed 
because the Petitioner has not established that our previous decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy, or that it was incorrect based upon evidence in the record of proceeding 
at the time of filing. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 See Matter of A-T-A-, ID# 2060602 (AAO Feb. 21, 2019) 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19589339 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 11, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an opera singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Applicant earned a Bachelor of Music degree at the I in .c===J. in his native Russia. A founding member of the I Choir o he he sang with that organization before moving to Germany to work on · Master of 
Music degree, m opera performance, at the m He later 
earned a second master's degree in choral conducting at University in __ 
where he now resides. When he filed the petition, he was studying for a Doctor of Musical 
Arts Degree from the University! he has since earned that degree. The record 
documents his artici ation in some high-profile projects, including a Grammy-nominated recording 
of the opera recorded while he was a graduate student in Germany. He is now the 
musical director of tw organizations : I I andl I Christian 
Church! 1 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
1 The Petitioner is currently in the United States in O-1 nonimmigrant status. We acknowledge that this status relates to 
extraordinary ability. Nevertheless , the record of proceeding for the approved nonimmigrant petition is not before us, and 
we cannot determine whether the facts in that case were the same as those in the present proceeding , or whether the 
nonimmigrant petition was approved in error. Also, the nonimmigrant and immigrant categories have different definitions 
and standards for persons of the arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonimmigrant O-1 category means 
distinction . 8 C.F.R. § 214.2(o)(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 
2 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Petitioner further claimed that his "important place in the growing Russian community in" 
constitutes comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only two of the claimed criteria, relating to participation 
as a judge, and artistic display. The Director also determined that the Petitioner had not established 
that the standard criteria do not readily apply to his occupation, such that he could submit comparable 
evidence instead. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets two further criteria, relating to published material, and 
leading or critical roles for distinguished organizations. 2 The Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
conclusions regarding the criterion pertaining to prizes or awards, or the comparable evidence clause, 
and therefore we consider those issues to be abandoned. 3 
Upon review of the record, as discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the criteria relating to published material and leading or critical roles. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To satisfy this criterion, the published material should be about the beneficiary, relating to his or her work 
in the field, not just about his or her employer or another organization that he or she is associated with. 
Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the beneficiary's products or promoting his or her 
services are not generally considered to be published material about the beneficiary. 6 USCIS Policy 
Manual F.2 ( appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner has submitted several articles from various publications. In denying the petition, the 
Director concluded that some of the articles are not about the Petitioner, relating to his work in the field, 
and that others had not been shown to be professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that qualifying articles appeared in five outlets, described below. The 
Petitioner maintains that these articles appeared in major media, but review of the record shows that the 
materials are deficient for other reasons. 
A 2017 review of I I an opera in which the Petitioner preformed, in the Austin Chronicle 
mentions the Petitioner only once in the text of the over 500-word article, and once in the caption to a 
2 Had the decision reached a final merits detennination, we would have discussed whether or not the evidence meeting 
these criteria is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005). citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1. *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
3 
photograph. Likewise, the Boston Globe's 500-word review of a 2016 performance of the opera 
mentions the Petitioner only once in the text and once in a caption. These articles are not published 
material about the Petitioner. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *l, *7 (D. Nev. 
Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about individual performers in 
that show). 
The Harvard Crimson, also reviewing! I mentions the Petitioner by name five times. One of those 
mentions is to identify the character he played, and another is to clarify that the Petitioner is not related 
to a cellist with a similar surname. The three substantive mentions of the Petitioner appear in one 
paragraph of the nine-paragraph, 1165-word review; the Petitioner is not the main subject, or one of 
several co-equal subjects, of the article. 
I lradio station ran a feature about the local I in early 2020. The 
record indicates that is a college radio station "on the University! I campus." The Petitioner 
notes that I lis affiliated with National Public Radio (NPR)," but the Petitioner does not establish 
that NPR broadcast the feature on other stations, or tha by itself, is a qualifying media outlet. 
A transcript indicates that the 20-minute segment consisted of interviews, mostly with the founder and 
director of the concert series, and performances of three songs, two of which featured the Petitioner ( one 
solo, one in a duet); the remaining song was a solo performance by another individual. The Petitioner's 
own performances are not published material about his work; other regulatory criteria cover artistic 
performances. Apart from the songs, the transcript indicates that the Petitioner spoke four times over the 
course of the 20-minute segment. The segment was primarily about the festival, rather than any of the 
individual participants therein. 
Of the articles discussed on appeal, only one focuses on the Petitioner. The Houston Chronicle published 
an article in 2018, previewing a then-upcoming chamber music concert. The article does not identify its 
author as the regulation requires. The uncredited article is undeniably about the Petitioner, but without 
further clarification and evidence, it more resembles marketing than journalism and does not meet the 
regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not established that his performances have attracted media attention beyond what 
appear to be routine local preview publicity and post-performance reviews. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner has claimed leading or critical roles at a number of organizations. The Petitioner's 
arguments on appeal are limited to three of these organizations, discussed below. The Petitioner has not 
alleged error with regard to two other initially claimed organizations. 
From 2000 to 2007, the Petitioner was I I soloist and onductor of the 
Choir inl I Russia. In the area, the Petitioner has served as the music 
director of lsince 2015, and o ____ since 2016. The Director acknowledged that these 
roles are, or were, leading or critical, but determined that the Petitioner had not established that these 
4 
organizations have a distinguished reputation ( or had such a reputation during the Petitioner's 
involvement). 
The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining 
factor. Rather, the organization or establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. 
6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 (appendix). 
The Petitioner, on a ea! cites reviousl submitted letters from the general director and principal 
conductor of the Choir (who studied alongside the Petitioner a 
; the founder and general director of land two officials o 
While these officials can attest to the nature of the Petitioner's roles within their respective organizations, 
their unsupported assertions about their own organizations are not sufficient evidence to establish the 
reputations of those organizations. 
The choir director's letter indicates that the ________ Choir has toured Europe and 
recorded, but the record does not establish that these activities are limited to choirs with a distinguished 
reputation, or that the performances and recordings have themselves brought distinction to the choir. As 
the Director noted in the denial notice, the record contains recent evidence showing the choir has attracted 
some attention and recognition, but all of this evidence dates from after the Petitioner left the organization 
in 2007. 
We agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that the choir had a distinguished 
reputation at the time he performed in a leading or critical role there. 
The Petitioner cites statistics about the religious denomination to which I belongs. The Petitioner, 
however, does not claim a leading or critical role for the entire denomination, and the size or scope of the 
denomination does not imply that any one church within the denomination has a distinguished reputation. 
Regardinel itself, the Petitioner asserts that "the church is very well known in the community for 
its strong musical program and concerts." Media stories documented in the record are limited to local 
coverage, announcing then-upcoming events. The Petitioner has not shown that this coverage 1s 
qualitatively or quantitatively different from that afforded to other area churches. 
Resubmitted copies of letters from a I I board member and an associate minister show that large 
portions of the two letters have identical, or very similar, wording, including parts that purport to represent 
their individual perspectives (for example, "[t]hroughout my career I have seen many Music Directors," 
and "I had the privilege of first meeting [the Petitioner] when in 2015 he accepted the position of Music 
Director at I _ The identical language in the submitted letters undermines their probative 
value. Identical language in letters "suggests that the letters were all prepared by the same person and 
calls into question the persuasive value of the letters' content." Hamal v. US. Dep 't of Homeland 
Security, No. 19-2534, slip op. at 8, n.3 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021). 
The Petitioner submits copies of Houston Chronicle articles about I I The general focus of 
these articles is the effect that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on the group's ability to mount 
productions. The articles do not show thatl has attracted significant recognition beyond 
the local area, or that it has a distinguished reputation in comparison to other opera companies. 
5 
For the above reasons, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not established that he has 
performed in leading or critical roles for organizations with distinguished reputations. 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown a level of recognition indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim, or which demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Instead, the record shows a predominantly 
local reputation. The evidence submitted does not support the claim that the Petitioner has reached 
the top of that field. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5505808 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 12, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an electrical equipment maintenance and electronic communication specialist, seeks 
classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had a one-time achievement (a major, internationally recognized award) 
or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner appealed the matter to us, and 
we summarily dismissed the appeal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he has demonstrated 
a one-time achievement and is eligible for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions to reopen and to 
reconsider. 
I. LAW 
A motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to 
reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements 
and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
A motion to reconsider must ( 1) state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent 
precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application oflaw or U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy, and (2) establish that the decision was incorrect 
based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.5(a)(3) . 
III. ANALYSIS 
As a preliminary matter, we note that the review of any motion is narrowly limited to the basis for the 
prior adverse decision. Although the Petitioner's appellate brief primarily addresses the Director's 
initial denial decision, we emphasize that the Petitioner did not appeal the denial order itself, but rather 
our summary dismissal of its appeal. Therefore, the merits of the denial decision, and of the underlying 
petition, are not before us. Rather, the only issue before us is whether we properly found that the 
Petitioner's appeal met the applicable requirements for summary dismissal pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3(a)(l)(v). 
In relevant part, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v) provides that an appeal shall be summarily 
dismissed "when the party concerned fails to identify specifically any erroneous conclusion of law or 
statement of fact for the appeal." In our decision, we noted that the Petitioner indicated that he would 
submit a brief and/ or additional evidence within 3 0 calendar days of filing the appeal, and that we had 
not received this documentation. We farther stated that the Petitioner's initial filing did "not contain 
a statement that specifically identifies an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact in the 
unfavorable decision being appealed." 
A. Motion to Reopen 
As we note above, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts. On motion, 
the Petitioner includes an appellate brief explaining that he "filed a timely appeal" and acknowledging 
that he "failed to submit additional documentation" with this appeal because he was still "in the 
process" of obtaining "documentation to demonstrates [sic] his eligibility" for the benefit sought. 
He also presents new evidence on motion with reJ?;ar ......... ~~~~-~~~~ ............. enial decision. 
Specifically he submits a letter froml J of.__ _______ ~ _ _._c;;_;o;;..c;n=f=irm=1=·nc=...=h;;;.;;;is 
current employment with that entity, as well as an offer of employment from .__ ______ ____. 
Regarding the matter before us, the Petitioner acknowledges in his appellate brief that he did not 
submit a brief or additional evidence, one of the reasons we provide in our summary dismissal for that 
decision. He does not demonstrate how the aforementioned letters address the stated grounds for 
summary dismissal, and this evidence is not sufficient to demonstrate that we were in error. 
Accordingly, while we note that the Petitioner submits new evidence, these materials do demonstrate 
that the Petitioner's appeal identified its legal or factual basis. Therefore we will dismiss this motion. 
B. Motion to Reconsider 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicate that he "seeks to file a motion to reconsider USCIS decision based 
on legal grounds, and seeks a new determination based on alleged errors of fact or law." However, he 
does not indicate that our decision to summarily dismiss his appeal was based on an incorrect 
application oflaw or policy or show that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
at the time. He therefore has not met the requirements for a motion to reconsider pursuant to 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3), and we will dismiss this motion accordingly. 
2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's motions to reopen and reconsider do not establish that our decision to summarily 
dismiss his appeal was legally or factually in error. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5268827 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 12, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a former professor at I !College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in education. 1 See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and two subsequent motions in 
2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial evidence 
requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) , which require documentation of a one-time 
achievement or evidence that meets at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). In 2014, we upheld the Director's 2013 decision, and subsequently reaffirmed 
our findings in nine motion decisions between 2014 and 2019. 2 
The matter is now before us on motion for the tenth time. The Petitioner has filed combined motions 
to reconsider and reopen, asserting that we should approve his petition because "the favorable factors 
in the case outweighed the unfavorable factors." He further alleges that he has shown he satisfies at 
least three of the ten regulatory criteria, because in addition to having previously established the 
judging and scholarly articles criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and (vi), he claims that he has 
demonstrated his "receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor," under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will deny the combined motions to 
reconsider and reopen. 
1 On page 3 of his petition, the Petitioner indicated that upon the approval of the petition, he would work as a "professor 
of law and economics" in the United States. 
2 Our most recent decision in this matter is Matter of A-O-R-D-L-, ID# 1574437 (AAO Feb. 4, 2019). 
I. LAW 
A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy, and a motion to reopen 
is based on documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion to reconsider are located 
at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3), and the requirements of a motion to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility 
for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner asserts that we erred in our last decision because we did not follow the plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), relating to nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. Specifically, he argues that "all 
the [five] international awards" meet the regulatory criterion. Moreover, he claims that we "entirely 
forgot in the decision about these five awards." 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we erred in our previous decision. The record reflects that 
we addressed all of his claimed awards in our prior decision denying his motions. Specifically, we 
informed the Petitioner in numerous decisions, including our most recent one, that he did not submit 
credible and sufficient evidence confirming that his 2001 "Diploma of Merit," issued by a regional 
authority, constituted a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the 
field of education. 
Furthermore, we explained that the Petitioner did not present evidence demonstrating that his 
"Innovare Award" enjoyed recognition on a national or international level in the field of education. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not address our finding that even though he claimed to have received 
the "Innovare Award" in 2005, the record did not show that is existed prior to 2010. 
Moreover, we indicated that he did not initially assert on appeal that his other awards and prizes, which 
he now claimed to be nationally recognized, were qualifying under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). Further, as we explained in our 2014 decision, the record did not show that his local 
or regional accolades were nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
In the case here, the Petitioner's conclusory statements and previously made arguments do not meet 
the regulatory requirements for a motion to reconsider. He has not demonstrated that we incorrectly 
applied law or policy in our latest decision, dated February 4, 2019, or that we erroneously adjudicated 
the benefit based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(3). Moreover, the Petitioner did not show that any of his prizes or awards qualify under 
the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). We will therefore deny his motion to reconsider. 
B. Motion to Reopen 
We will similarly deny the Petitioner's motion to reopen the matter. On motion, the Petitioner argues 
that he received incorrect correspondence from us informing him that we do not have a record of a 
2 
pending appeal with our office. Moreover, he requests that we inform the Director that he has a 
pending appeal in order to maintain his pending status relating to his Form I-485, Application to 
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status. The Petitioner submits copies of our November 2018 
correspondence and the Director's October 2018 decision dismissing his motion to reconsider 
regarding the denial of his Form I-485. 
As noted, a motion to reopen must state new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be 
supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how his evidence relates to our prior decision denying his most recent motion filing. 3 Moreover, the 
Petitioner did not show how the correspondence and the Form I-485 decision establish his eligibility 
as an individual of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of Act. 
As he has not presented either new facts or new evidence in support of his eligibility for extraordinary 
ability classification, he has not satisfied the requirements for a motion to reopen. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not shown that we incorrectly denied his most recent motions based on the record 
before us, nor does his new evidence on motion demonstrate that he has fulfilled at least three of the 
evidentiary criteria. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied. 
3 Although the Petitioner asseits that our correspondence was incorrect, the record does not support his claim. Rather, the 
record reflects that the only appeal filed by the Petitioner was on October 7, 2013, which we dismissed on July 25, 2014. 
In addition, as we have no jurisdiction, any issues relating to his Form 1-485 should be addressed in a separate proceeding 
to the Director. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5690707 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 12, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an orchestra concertmaster, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish 
that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or Service policy. A motion to 
reconsider a decision on an application or petition must, when filed, also establish that the decision 
was incorrect based on the evidence ofrecord at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is employed as an orchestra concertmaster with.__ _____________ _. D, an organization that presents dance per~ormances with orchestral accompaniment. The 
Petitioner has served as the concertmaster for thel !symphony Orchestra, which comprises 
musicians from the various! !touring co,oanies Ipis orchestra performs concerts without 
the dancers who would otherwise be the focus of al._ ____ _.I performance. 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed a major, internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at 
least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claimed 
to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
2 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
In our appellate decision, we concluded that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the criteria, 
pertaining to artistic exhibitions or showcases. On motion, the Petitioner maintains that she met all 
four claimed criteria, and submits printouts of online materials relating tol I 
For the reasons set forth below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not met any of the three additional 
criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner won a prize atl I al I contest for young musicians, in 2004. In our 
dismissal notice, we determined that "the Petitioner did not show that her first prize award is nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field," because the information and evidence that she 
provided "focused on the purpose and background of the competition" rather than on the recognition of 
the awards themselves. 
On motion, the Petitioner maintains that we arbitrarily refused to give due weight to a prize from 
'I I's most important youth music competition." The Petitioner cites previously submitted exhibits 
56-62. Those exhibits include media articles about I I indicating that the event attracts 
over 20,000 participants each year. The scale of such an event is consistent with national recognition, but 
the Petitioner did not show that the awarding of the prizes attracts comparable attention. 
A prize certificate names the Petitioner and two other musicians, and refers to "a first prize" ("ein I. 
Preis") but the record lacks evidence of the national or international recognition of the prize, and 
significantly, there is no evidence of how many first prizes were awarded. Further, the submitted 
documentation establishes media recognition of the competition as a whole, but it does not show that the 
names of the prize winners are publicly announced, either by the press or on I ts own 
website. (If such evidence exists, the Petitioner has not included it in the record.) 
Contrary to the Petitioner's contention on motion, the distinction between recognition of the competition 
and recognition of the prize is not arbitrary. The regulation calls for nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence, rather than prizes or awards from internationally recognized 
sources. The lack of information about the prize itself is a significant deficiency, rather than a minor 
technicality. 
The Petitioner has not established that we erred in our prior conclusion. 
3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In our appellate decision, we concluded: "While the Petitioner demonstrated that her concertmaster 
position is leading to the orchestra, she did not explain or show how her role is leading to I I 
overall. . . . Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that in her role as a concertmaster she was 
responsible for the success or standing of I I' 
On motion, the Petitioner reiterates the assertion that "the concertmaster ... is the most important member 
of the orchestra." We did not dispute this assertion, but the Petitioner has not shown that the orchestra 
itself enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than relying on its connection to the larger organization and 
its several touring dance companies. 
The Petitioner's selection to lead thel I Symphony Orchestra attests to her standing within the 
~--~!organization, but this is a separate issue from the orchestra's reputation. The Petitioner submits 
copies of several newspaper articles offering unreserved praise for the orchestra, but these articles 
appeared in the Epoch Times, which is not a disinterested third party. The Epoch Times' coverage of I I is more promotional than journalistic, as is evident from the newspaper's own statement that 
"Epoch Times consided I the significant cultural event of our time." As such, 
that newspaper's coverage is not sufficient to establish that the I I Symphony Orchestra has a 
distinguished reputation in its own right. A Poli~ in the record discusses the Epoch Times' "ties 
tol I" the spiritual movement behindl____J 
Information about concert venues where the orchestra has performed does not establish the distinguished 
reputation of the orchestra, in the absence of evidence that those venues will only permit performances 
by distinguished artists. 
The Petitioner cites its prior submission of letters and proclamations from various government officials 
and entities. Without evidence to show howl I obtained these materials and who chose their 
wording, their weight is limited. (If: for example, a particular office routinely issues such proclamations 
on request, and the recipients specify the wording, then such a proclamation would be more accurately 
described as a favor to constituents than as meaningful recognition.) 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a March 2019 printout of a story that appeared in the Gazette, with the 
headlinP-1 , lwith no author credit. The printout identifies the story 
as a "sponsored feature," which indicates it is, essentially, an advertisement for al I performance. 
Marketing and promotional materials are not generally considered to be published material for the 
purposes of satisfying the regulatory requirements. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, 
Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's 
Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14, 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/ 
legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
A concertmaster may well perform in a leading or critical role for a riven orchestra, but the record does 
not include independent, non-promotional evidence to show that the~--~~ymphony Orchestra, or 
4 
any of the individual touring companies with which the Petitioner has performed, has a distinguished 
reputation. 
Therefore, the Petitioner has not met this criterion or shown that we erred in our prior decision. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
In our appellate decision, we stated that the Petitioner had not identified specific contributions or 
shown those contributions to be of major significance in the field. On motion, the Petitioner cites the 
aforementioned Gazette article, but does not explain how that article establishes original contributions 
of major significance. The article does not refer to the Petitioner, either by name or simply as the 
concertmaster. 
The Petitioner cites previously submitted materials about the orchestra, the implication being that, 
because the Petitioner is the concertmaster for the orchestra, she is largely responsible for the 
orchestra's success (although the Petitioner also asserts that "credit goes to more than one person"). I I however, is not a self-contained field of its own. The record shows no specific 
contributions, reliably attributable to the Petitioner in particular, that are of major significance in the 
field of classical music. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6081499 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 12, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a bodybuilder, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has competed nationally and internationally as an amateur bodybuilder in .... I ___ _. 
and elsewhere in South America. The Petitioner states his intention to continue competing, but it is 
not clear to what extent, and in what capacity, he would be employed in bodybuilding. In the past, he 
has competed as an amateur, and the record contains no documentary evidence that he has ever been 
employed in bodybuilding. At the time of fililg, he inTcated that he sought to compete inl I 
In response to a request for evidence, a gym in indicated that the Petitioner sought to compete 
on behalf of that establishment, but the Petitioner has since returned to I ~ 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met four criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not met any of the evidentiary criteria, partly (but not 
entirely) because of perceived deficiencies in translated documents in the record. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that the translations were adequate, and that he meets the four claimed evidentiary 
criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied any of the criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner stated that he "has won countless ,wards for the International Federation ofBodvbuj)djng 
and Fitness (IFBB)" and its member body, theL I I As evidence, he submitted photograph._s_o_f_h_i_m_s_e_lf-at-co_m_p_e-ti-ti_o_n-s,-b-o_t_h_w-it-h-an_d_w_i-th_o_u_t__. 
medals; close-up photographs of those medals; copies of "Certificates of Athletic Achievement"; copies 
of foreign-language certificates; and web printouts. 
2 
The Director found the exhibits to be deficient in various ways. For example, the "Certificates of Athletic 
Achievement" do not include the Petitioner's name. The Director also stated that the translations of the 
foreign-language certificates do not meet all the requirements set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). On 
appeal, the Petitioner contends that he submitted adequate evidence to show his receipt of the claimed 
pnzes. 
The Director was correct that some pieces of evidence do not, by themselves, document the Petitioner's 
receipt of prizes or awards. But when considering the record as a whole, the various submitted materials 
are sufficient to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Petitioner received the claimed 
prizes. The pieces fit together into a consistent and coherent whole, and the Director did not cite any 
reason to question the credibility of the submitted evidence. 
Also, the Director did not specify how the English translations were deficient. The Director emphasized 
that such translations must be certified as complete and accurate, but the translations in the record appear 
to include all the required elements. The translator certified that he was "fluent" rather than "competent," 
but those terms appear to be essentially synonymous in the context of translating documents. 
Documenting receipt of prizes, however, fulfills only part of the requirements for the criterion. The 
Petitioner must also establish that the prizes are nationally or internationally recognized. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner had not established the national or international recognition of the claimed 
pnzes. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he "received ... lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards," but does not cite evidence of that claimed recognition. Previously submitted materials from 
IFBB and I I events, and printouts from IFB~ website, are not objective evidence of the 
recognition accorded to prizes awarded at IFBB andl__Jcompetitions. 
The Petitioner has documented his receipt of prizes and awards for excellence in his field, but he has not 
established that they are nationally or internationally recognized. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner asserts that his membership in~I -~lteams satisfies this criterion. 
In the denial notice, the Director found that the Petitioner had relied on deficient translations and on 
photographs that do not establish membership in any association. On appeal, as above, the Petitioner 
maintains that the document translations conform to the regulatory requirements. 
Review of the evidence indicates that the Petitioner is a member of the IFBB and its subsidiary I~-~ 
but the record does not establish that either of those organizations, or any of their teams, require 
outstanding achievement as judged by recognized national or international experts. The president of the 
3 
~-~I stated that the Petitioner "participated as an athlete of the national team," but did not address the 
membership requirements of the organization or any of its teams. 
The Petitioner has not documented membership in any association in the field that requires outstanding 
achievements as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submitted several exhibits, all deficient for various reasons. A screen capture from 
Y ouTube shows that a video posted byl I features an interview 
with the Petitioner. The Petitioner did not show thatl I Y ouTube channel constitutes major 
media. The Petitioner claimed "104.79 K Unique Web Visitors," but that figure relates to total visits to 
I l not td Is Y ouTube channel. The video with the Petitioner had accumulated only 
127 views between October 2016 and November 2017. 
Printouts from several different websites list competition results. Because the Petitioner is one of many 
athletes listed, the printouts are not published material about him, and therefore we need not determine 
whether those websites constitute professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
A headline in El Mercurio translates to ' but the Petitioner's '-------------------' name does not appear to be in the article. The Petitioner submitted a translation of the headline, but not 
of the article itself The Petitioner did not show that this article is published material about him. 
The Director identified several deficiencies in the Petitioner's evidence, but on appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts only that the submitted translations were adequate. 
The Petitioner has not submitted published material about him in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, relating to his work in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that he is or was a leader, or that he performed 
in a critical role. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is (or was), 
in fact, leading. USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation o_f Evidence Submitted with 
Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update AD 11-14, IO (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
If the Petitioner claims to have performed in a critical role, the evidence must establish that the role is 
or was of significant importance to the standing of the organization or the outcome of its activities. 
Id. 
4 
The Petitioner claims to have performed in a leading and critical role for the I l"by competing and 
winning at ... international tournaments" and by working as "a national bodybuilding instructor." The 
Petitioner cites language from elsewhere in the above-cited memorandum, relating to reliance on "letters 
from individuals with personal knowledge of the significance of the alien's leading or critical role." The 
submitted letter (from thel ~ president), however, does not attest to such a role. The official simply 
listed events in which the Petitioner competed, and the Petitioner's rankings in those events. 
The Petitioner does not show how his competition results affected thel I and thereby amounted to a 
critical role. With respect to his "national bodybuilding instructor" title, the Petitioner has not established 
the role and duties associated with that title, or how his activities have affected thel I as a whole 
rather than the individual athletes whom he helped to train. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not established that thel lhas a distinguished reputation. As noted 
previously, much of the evidence about thel lcomes from within the organization. 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 MATTER OFD-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals_ Office 
DATE: FEB. 13,2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITIO~ FOR ALIEN WORKER 
) ·/ 
The Petitioner, a professional basketball player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
· ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas av~ilable to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability throug'1 sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Acting Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140; Immigrant Petition for 
Alien Worker, concluding that ~he Petitioner had satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary 
criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief arguing that she satisfies at 
least three of the ten criteria and qualifie_s as an athlete of extraordinary ability. 
Upon de novo review, we will sustain the appeal. _ 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized m the· field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially penefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers.only to ·those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of ~ndeavor.'' 8 C'.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of D-S-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
international~y recognized award). If; that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as ·awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that ·the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner ._meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC JS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality,'' as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter o.fChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
\ 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must -satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner satisfied the 
membership criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and the record supports that finding~ For 
example, the evidence indicates that she competed as a member of the women's basketball 
team at the 2008 m 1 · 
In addition, we find that the Petitioner meets the awards criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and the 
leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). Specifically, the Petitioner was a 
starting player on a women's professional team that won national 
basketball championships in 2013 and 2016. She was also a starting player for the national 
women's team that earned a bronze medal at the in 2011. The Petitioner's 
supporting evidence includes media coverage demonstrating the national . and international 
recognition of her championship awards. Furthermore , the evidence shows that the Petitioner has 
· 1 The record shows that only twelve national basketball teams qualify to compete in the 
competitive process. 
2 through an arduous 
.
·. Matter of D-S-
performed in a critical role for distinguished organizations such as the women's team that 
earned an berth and a professional 
women's team.2 Accordingly, the record demonstrates that she has satisfied at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
I 
As the record satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we will 
analyze the Petitioner 's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if her 
successes are sufficidnt to demonstrate that she. has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
We evaluate whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that she has 
sustained national or intematio·nal acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized in the 
field through extensive documentation, making her one of the small percentage who have risen to the 
very .top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204:5(h)(2), (3); 
see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In the present matter, 'the Petitioner has shown his 
eligibility for this classification . 
The Petitioner has competed for in Tennessee3, national and teams, 
and various professional teams in the top women's division in Europe4 as a critical member of their 
basketball teams. While competing for these teams, she won nationally recognized competitions 
such as and national basketball championships (2013 and 2016), as 
well as being selected as Most Valuable Player of the Finals of the In addition, her 
bronze medal at the (20 l 1) further demonstrates international recognition . in 
her sport. Regarding the Petitioner 's performance at the sports coverage 
from states that she received "the highest points award with 13 l points" (averaging 
"16.375 points per.;game") and "made the continent Top-5 list." 
Furthermore, at the 2008 in the Petitioner represented and had the 
second most rebounds per game among all players from the twelve qu,,alifying teams,5 
has also honored her as the 
(2011). The record includes coverage of the Petitioner's basketball accomplishments dating from ' . the late 2000s until the Form I-140 was filed in 2016 in a variety of media outlets including 
Eurobasket.com , Afrobasketcom , ESPN.com, FIBA.com 6, Basketfeminin.com , and · L 'Avenir (a 
2 The record includes media coverage and basketball statistics showing that the Petitioner played a key role for the 
national team and and that these teams had a distinguished reputation. "' 
3 While playing for her team won the 
in 2006. 
4 The evidence shows that the Petitioner has played under contract for professional basketball teams in 
5 For example, top rebounder 
ranked fifth in rebounds per game averaging 8.4, while the Petitioner ranked second averaging 10.0 per game. 
The Petitioner 's high statistical ranking relative to other elevates her to the very top of her sport at the 
international level. 
· 6 is the official website of the -----------~ the gover.ning body for the sport of 
3 
Matter of D-S~ 
Belgian newspaper). This evidence sets the Petitioner apart through a '1career of acclaimed work in 
the field." See H. Rep. No. 101-723, at 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
In summary, the-Petitioner has demonstrated her extraordinary ability as a professional basketball 
player. The totality of the evidence establishes that she possesses a level of expertise that is 
consistent with a finding that she is one of a small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor 
and that she has documented sustained acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 956 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that she meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). She has also demonstrated sustained national and international 
acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, 
the Petitioner has shown that she intends to continue working in her area of expertise and that she 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. She therefore qualifies for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
Cite as Matter ofD-S-, ID# 2025090 (AAO Feb. 13, 2019) 
\ 
basketball worldwide. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5437970 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a coach ofi ITiu Jitsu D, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed . 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Motion to Reconsider 
On motion, the Petitioner does not identify any specific error oflaw or policy in our appellate decision. 
Instead, the Petitioner seeks essentially a new adjudication of the petition, under a different 
combination of regulatory criteria and relying on new claims concerning facts previously in the record. 
Therefore, the motion does not meet the regulatory requirements for a motion to reconsider. 
Accordingly, we must dismiss that motion. 
2 
B. Motion to Reopen 
A motion to reopen or to reconsider serves a limited purpose; it is not a mechanism for seeking a 
complete re-hearing on the merits of the underlying petition. 
The Petitioner did not previously claim to have received a major, internationally recognized award. 
Instead, he relied upon alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), as well as the 
comparable evidence clause. In our appellate decision, we explained why the Petitioner had not 
established that he can rely on comparable evidence: 
General assertions that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an 
occupation are not probative and should be discounted. The fact that the Petitioner did 
not submit documentation that fulfills at least three is not evidence that a jiu-jitsu coach 
could not do so. . . . Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained or established how 
the documentation he has provided is comparable to the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
(Footnote omitted.) On motion, the Petitioner again invokes the comparable evidence clause relating 
to several eligibility criteria. We will address each instance as appropriate. 
On motion, the Petitioner states: "under 8 CFR Section 204.5(h)(4), the petitioner may submit 
comparable evidence of eligibility if the standards under 8 CFR Section 204.5(h)(3) do not readily 
apply to him." This assertion, however, is a misreading of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). That regulation 
allows a petitioner to submit comparable evidence if the standard regulatory criteria "do not readily 
apply to the beneficiary's occupation." If the standard criteria do readily apply to the occupation, then 
an individual petitioner's personal inability to meet those criteria does not trigger the comparable 
evidence clause. 
The Petitioner contends that "coaches of Odo not have an established 'Major Internationally 
Recognized A ward,"' and asks us to consider the performance of his most successful pupils as 
comparable evidence of such an award. The "comparable evidence" clause, however, applies only to 
the ten lesser evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), not to the major, internationally 
recognized award. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) 
Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14, 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/ 
policy-memoranda. 
Lacking a major, internationally recognized award, the Petitioner initially claimed to have met six of 
the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
3 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director found that the Petitioner had satisfied only one of the claimed criteria, relating to 
published material about the Petitioner. In our appellate decision, we determined that the Petitioner 
had not satisfied any of the claimed criteria. On motion, the Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, 
either directly or through comparable evidence: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
Because a motion does not involve a foll readjudication of the underlying petition, we will focus on 
the newly-submitted evidence, along with any arguments that we erred in our prior decision. 
We begin with the criterion that the Director initially granted. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
As we noted in our prior decision, the Petitioner was the subject of two articles on the website of a 
local ABC affiliate. We acknowledged that the "articles are about the Petitioner in his capacity as a 
jiu-jitsu coach," but we concluded that "the record lacks evidence demonstrating that abc-7.com is a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits background information and asserts that the affiliate "is considered 
a major media inl I parts of Florida." The ABC network, as a whole, qualifies 
as major media, but the Petitioner does not claim or establish that ABC has covered his work at the 
network level. Individual affiliate stations, by design, reach a significantly more limited audience. 
The Petitioner's new evidence does not establish that the local affiliate's website constitutes major 
media, and therefore the Petitioner has not overcome our prior determination to that effect. 
Furthermore, the article focuses on the Petitioner's daughter, identifying the Petitioner as the child's 
father and coach, with no mention of his other coaching work. 
The Petitioner asks that we consider published materials about his students as comparable evidence, 
but the Petitioner does not show that this criterion does not readily apply to his occupation. Without 
meeting this threshold, the Petitioner has not opened the door to consideration of comparable evidence 
here. 
4 
We will not disturb our prior finding that the Petitioner has not been the subject of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to his work. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Previously, the Petitioner had claimed to satisfy this criterion through his third degree black belt from 
,......_ ______ ,___ _____ __. and membership in the Jiu-Jitsu Federation of State of I I 
We found that the Petitioner had not documented I I's membership 
reqmrements, an had not shown that his black belt constitutes membership in an association. 
On motion the Petitioner again invokes D andl l newly cl~hat his employment as a 
coach at LJ and his designation as an authorized representative o:L_j are each comparable to 
~fying memberships. The Petitioner contends that the comparable evidence clause applies because LJ does not have formal organizations that simply recognize and praise achievements and coaches." 
A qualifying association requires outstanding achievements of its members, but the purpose of such 
an association is not to "simply recognize and praise achievements."1 
The Petitioner does not establish that employment with0 or performing a function within._! __ _. 
are comparable to membership in an association. Therefore, we need not reach the additional issue of 
whether those entities require outstanding achievements of their members. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner had previously claimed that his work with the I I Sheriff's Office constituted 
a leading and critical role, but we did not find that the Petitioner had satisfied the criterion. On motion, 
rather than show that we erred in that findinT' the Pcitioner newly claims to have performed in leading 
or critical roles as a coach and instructor at nd as an authorized representative ofl I 
In this way, the Petitioner does not contend that we erred in our determination concerning thec=J I ~ Sheriff's office, nor does the Petitioner introduce new evidence relevant to that determination. 
Rather, the Petitioner seeks consideration of an entirely new claim, albeit one that relates to 
information already in the record in a different context. 
1 The aforementioned USCTS policy memorandum offers the example of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (NAS). 
USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 6. The NAS is not simply a "hall of fame" that compiles a list of 
top scientists. Rather, the NAS actively promotes science through functions such as publishing a scholarly journal and 
serving as a scientific advisory body. See http://www.nasonline.org/about-nas/mission/ (last visited Feb. 12, 2020). 
5 
It is significant that a motion to reopen relates to the latest decision in the proceeding. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l )(ii). In this instance, the latest decision is not the denial of the petition, but our dismissal 
of the appeal from that denial. Thus, a motion filed at this stage of the proceeding must seek to remedy 
flaws in the appellate decision, rather than the earlier denial. A post-appellate motion to reopen is not 
the proper forum to advance what amount to entirely new claims of eligibility that the Petitioner did 
not advance at any prior stage in the proceeding. 2 
We note the Petitioner's submission of letters discussing the claimed importance of the Petitioner's 
roles withc=J and I l but we also note the lack of documentary evidence that could be expected 
to exist independently of this proceeding. For example, to establish the reputations ofc=] its 
officials, and several athletes, the Petitioner submits printouts from the OHeroes website, but the 
Petitioner does not submit evidence from that website about himself 
This omission is not a minor issue. For example, a letter from athletP.I I indicates that the 
Petitioner played a significant role in her training, butl l's biography onOHeroes does not 
mention the Petitioner at all, and neither does the accompanying "Lineage" that traces the pedigree of 
her trainers back to the 19th century. 
It is of particular concern that, on motion, the Petitioner claims that his leading roles include serving 
as head coach at D arguably the flagship school forc=]but the first letters fromD officials 
only attested to his black belt. When weighing the credibility of this new claim to have been a head 
coach atl r7e take into consideration that the Petitioner withheld this information until the motion 
stage, and the absence of documentary support for that claim. 
The Petitioner repeats and expands upon prior assertions regarding his status as all,.Jl.ll1hm;ized 
representative ofll stating: "Although other individuals may be authorized to teaclL_J Jiu­
Jitsu, [the Petitio~e only one authorized to promote and certify through thel I; this nuance 
is important since it establishes the exclusivity and importance of [the Petitioner's] role." A letter 
from the president oti I in the Petitioner's initial submission called the Petitioner "the only Third 
Degree Black Belt ... [with] the recommendation of the I I to teach inl I Florida, 
USA." In response to a request for evidence, the same official stated that the Petitioner "is the 
INTERNATIONAL representative of this entity and the only one authorized to promote and certify 
throughout the United States of America and beyond." 
As discussed above, the record lacks documentation to establish the significance of this role. The 
Petitioner does not dispute that there are several schools in the United States and elsewhere teaching 
I IJiu Jitsu as devf1oped rl land the record does not establish the Petitioner's actual duties 
and responsibilities as 's international representative. It is not the title of the alien's role, but 
rather the alien's performance in the role that determines whether the role is ( or was) critical. USCIS 
Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
2 We note that a petitioner abandons issues not raised on appeal. See Sepulveda v. US. Att): Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 
n. 2 (11th Cir. 2005); see also, Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 
2011) (the comi found the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
G 
In this respect, it isl sigrficant that, while the Petitioner submits new background information about I ~nd other organizations, these materials do not identify the Petitioner as I ts 
international representative with exclusive authority to promote and certify the organization or its 
methods. 
The Petitioner's submission on motion does not establish his performance in a leading or critical role 
for organizations or establishments with a distinguished reputation. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy this criterion, petitioners must establish that not only have they made original 
contributions, but also that those contributions have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. See 
Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F. 3d 28, 31 (3rd Cir. 1995) quoted inAPWU 
v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619,626 (2nd Cir. Sep 15, 2003). 
The Petitioner previously submitted letters indicating that the Petitioner's coaching activities had 
directly and indirectly affected thousands of athletes. In our appellate decision, we stated: 
The [submitted] letters do not provide sufficient information, nor does the record 
include adequate corroborating documentation, to demonstrate how the Petitioner's 
work as a jiu-jitsu coach has been a contribution of major significance to the field .... 
Letters that lack specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting 
this criterion. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits new letters from members of thel I family ( considered central 
figures inD and from an athlete whom the Petitioner repeatedly identifies as an "Olympic Gold 
Medalist," although the medals are from "Junior Olympic" events, rather than the international 
Olympic Games. (The Petitioner acknowledges that the medals were in judo rather than inD The 
letters in question do not specifically identify any original contributions of major significance; they 
indicate only that the Petitioner has been a skilled and talented coach for many students over the years. 
Success and expertise are not intrinsically original contributions of major significance. 
As noted above, the Petitioner newly claims comparable evidence relating to two additional criteria on 
motion, (1) documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)), and (2) evidence of the alien's 
participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied 
field of specification for which classification is sought. (8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv)). 
7 
As we have already observed, a motion to reopen serves a limited purpose, and it is not an opportunity 
for a petitioner to seek a foll rehearing on the record or to make new claims that the Petitioner could 
have made, but did not make, at any prior time. The attempt to pursue new lines of reasoning or 
evidence cannot establish that the outcome of the appeal should have been different. 
Because the Petitioner did not establish that he meets any of the four criteria discussed above, the 
remaining two criteria cannot suffice to establish eligibility, even if we were to grant them now. 
Therefore, we reserve the remaining issues. 3 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7403421 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an e-commerce based gourmet food delivery company, seeks to classify the Beneficiary, 
its chief executive officer (CEO), as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that the Beneficiary meets only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this 
classification, of which he must satisfy at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets up to three additional criteria and is 
otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's sustained acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation on behalf of the 
beneficiary that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner operates an e-commerce based business that allows'------~----' customers to 
order individual gourmet meals prepared by private chefs for home delivery. The Beneficiar has 
been em lo ed in the United States as the Petitioner's CEO since 2016. He is also a founder of 
and 
.__ _____ ----r----,__ ________________ ____,, , as well as the founder 
and chairman of a restaurant group that includes the aforementioned Argentina-based '-----~ 
businesses. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Beneficiary met two of the evidentiary criteria, relating to published 
materials and leading roles in organizations that have a distinguishTi reputation ]he record reflects 
that the Beneficiary and his business partner were featured in a~----~ issue of Forbes 
magazine (Argentina edition) and therefore we agree with the Director's determination that the 
evidence satisfies the published materials criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). In addition, we agree 
that the Petitioner t,rovided suffirent evidence to establish that the Beneficiary served in a leading 
role forl and the other I companies, as well as evidence to establish that these 
businesses enjoy a distinguished reputation in Argentina. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary meets up to three additional criteria, discussed 
below. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find the Petitioner has not established 
that the Beneficiary meets at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the Beneficiary's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 The 
description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the focus should be on "the alien's" 
receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's receipt of the awards or prizes. 2 
The Petitioner initially claimed that the Beneficiary satisfied this criterion based on the following: 
• CEO of the Year (2013), awarded bvl !Argentina 
• Forbes Argentina-I I 
• Mobile Marketing Association's 2013 I IAward awarded tq !(Bronze 
award in mobile commerce) 
• Golden Fork Award for "Best Restamant wit: Delivery,",....a .... w ..... a .... r .... d ... e .... d ..... t .... o'Ll ___ ~ _____ ____J 
• 20141 I Restaurant itj._ _____ _.Jawarded tol I by Cuisine et Vins 
magazme. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary himself was the 
recipient of the awards issued tol land.__ _____ __. We agree with the Director's 
determination with respect to these awards and note that the Petitioner has not contested that 
determination on appeal. 3 
In regard to the 2013 CEO of the Year award from I I Argentina, the Director acknowledged that 
the Petitioner provided evidence that the Beneficiary, as opposed to his company or employer, was 
the recipient of the award. However, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide 
sufficient supporting evidence to demonstrate that the Beneficiary received a nationally or 
internationally recognized award for excellence. Specifically, the Director noted that the record lacked 
evidence from the awarding entity demonstrating the criteria used to grant the award, information 
regarding the number of prizes awarded, or other information, such as public announcements or media 
announcing the award winners. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "misapplied the regulations" by requiring a public 
award announcement, and emphasizes that "the regulations only require that the award be of national 
or international recognition." In addition, the Petitioner maintains that the award was accompanied 
by a blog post published onl !Argentina's website, which served as public announcement of the 
Beneficiary's receipt of the award. 4 
~e with the Director's determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's 
L__JArgentina CEO of the Year award is a nationally or internationally recognized award for 
excellence. The Petitioner described! las "an invitation-only membership organization, which 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 Id. 
3 We note, however, that we considered these awards in determining that the Beneficiary has held a leading role with 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii1----------, 
4 The Petitioner also submits new evidence demonstrating that the announcement appeared on L__J Argentina's 
Facebook page. 
3 
is highly selective and ... is composed of multimillion dollar corporations, executive officers, and 
business owners," with 20,000 members and affiliates in 16 countries. However, the fact that the 
organization is international is not sufficient to establish that any award granted by the organization 
(or one of its country affiliates) is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for 
excellence that meets the plain language of this criterion. 
USCIS policy guidance provides that relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting 
the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant 
the prizes or awards, the national or international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and 
the number of awardees or prize recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 5 The Director 
did not misapply the regulation to the facts presented in determining that the award certificate, the 
blog post, and general information about the awarding entity were not sufficient to establish that all 
elements of the criterion were met. 
The Beneficiary's award certificate froml !Argentina indicates that he was recognized "[f]or 
his outstanding contribution in I IN° 51 coordinated by the Chairl I,, 
However, the record does not clarify to what "Group N° 51" refers or identify the Benerciar~ s I 
"outstanding contribution" to this group. The evidence suggests that the awards granted by 
Argentina were likely limited to members, but the record otherwise contains no information regarding 
how the award recipients were selected. Further, although the Petitioner provided evidence that I !Argentina recognized the 2013 winners on its own website's blog and on social media, the 
record does not demonstrate that the award is nationally recognized in the field, as opposed to 
recognized within the I I Argentina organization. Therefore, I e ag,cel with the Director's 
determination that the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary's Argentina CEO of the 
Year award meets this criterion. 
Finally, the Petitioner claims on appeal that the Director overlooked or disregarded evidence that the 
Beneficiary was recognized by Forbes magazine (Argentina) in its I I issue published in I I 2013. The Petitioner correctly notes that the Director did not discuss this evidence under the 
awards criterion. 
However, the record does not establish that the Petitioner's recognition by Forbes magazine is a "prize 
or award" as reauired hv the plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). The 
Beneficiary andl Is chief financial officer were recognized in the magazine, which contains 
a foll-page photograph of them and a brief article that discusses their success in growing the~ I I chain in the city." The Petitioner did not provide evidence that the 
Beneficiary received an award or prize from Forbes Argentina, and did not respond to the Director's 
request for evidence such as a photograph of the award or copy of the award certificate. Therefore, 
while we acknowledge that an appearance on a Forbes list such as this one provides notable publicity 
that satisfies the published materials criterion and would be weighed under a final merits 
determination, the record does not establish that it is a prize or award that satisfies all elements of this 
criterion. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 6 (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a 
single institution, for example, may have little national or international significance). 
4 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner argues that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based on: (1) his membership in 
in which he is also a founder oftheOArgentina chapter; and (2) L_ ____________ --,.J-'~~==, 
the Petitioner's acceptance as an.__ __ __,accelerator program participant. In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary is a member of an association and that such 
membership is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 6 
As it relates toO the Petitioner rovided screenshots from the or anization's website which describe 
Oas "a.__ ___________ ~----~~-~-----------' According to 
the website, a prospective member "must be the owner, founder or rnajorit stakeholder of a business 
earning a minimum o~ land' corn anies 
must have either privately raised fonds of at lea~ I, publically-raiseµ..:fi.qds of.__ ___ __,, 
and a minimum of 10 employees." According to the information published byLJ once a membership 
application is received, it "will be reviewed by your local chapter to ensure that all criteria is [sic] 
met." 
The Os website reflects that, after receipt and initial review of a~lication, the local chapter 
schedules an interview "to farther explore [the applicant's] interest inLJ"7 However, based on this 
limited description of the interview stage, it does not appear to involve additional requirements or 
substantive review by national or international experts to determine whether a given applicant has 
demonstrated outstanding achievements. Therefore, the record does not substantiate that D s 
membership application extends beyond requiring that that an applicant be an owner, founder or 
majority stakeholder of a company that meets the stated income and financing requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that satisfying□ s minimum income and financing requirements 
is in itself evidence of an outstanding achievement. It submits an article ublished by Inc. magazine, 
which rnentionsOas an organization "that maintains a level of eer ualifications 
for entry," and an article from Fundera which states that '.__~------~-----------' I , I" While the record reflects tha0sets what appears to be a fairly high bar for membership, 
the fact remains that it is an objective, bright-line threshold. Based on the information provided 
regarding the membership requirements, it is reasonable to conclude that an applicant who meets this 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
7 We note that former counsel stated that the interview with the D local chapter involves "fmther scrutinizing [an 
applicant's] talents and entrepreneurial spirit and extraordinary ability before approving the applicant for membership," 
but this statement was not supported by the information provided on the Dwebsite, and this claim has not been repeated 
on appeal. Asseitions of counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 T&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) 
( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the 
record with independent evidence. 
5 
threshold and pays the membership dues will be granted membership. The Petitioner did not establish 
thatOrequires outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized national or 
international experts in their disciplines or fields (emphasis added). 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record also establishes that the Beneficiary is one of eight founding board members of Os 
Argentina chapter. The Petitioner provided a partial copy of0s Chapter Formation Guidebook, 
and asserted that "not everyDmember is qualified and capable of leading a group of officers in 
creating a local chapter in their community." The "Chapter Launch Application" found in this 
guidebook requires basic information regarding the proposed chapter, the name of the "Chapter 
Champion," and the names of eight founding board members. However, the Petitioner did not 
establish that the founding members are required to meet membership requirements other than those 
applicable to regular members, despite taking on additional responsibiities. Further, the record does 
not establish that founding board members for a new chapter undergo a process in which they are 
judged by national or international experts based on their outstanding individual achievements. 
Therefore, the record does not establish that the Beneficiary's membership on the0Argentina board 
satisfies this criterion. 
The Petitioner also maintains that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion based on his association with I la.__ ___________ __. The record contains media coverage of~ lthat 
establishes that the program is both highly-regarded and very competitive. The program has two 
application cycles annually which typically draw applications from approximately 2000 companies, 
with only 12 or so companies accepted. The Petitioner submitted an article published by StrictlyVC, 
which indicates that program applicants "are asked to submit a two-minute video, along with an essay, 
about their company." Based on these materials,! 0 ~s two co-founders choose between 100 
and 200 teams for interviews, and eventually "choor a dozen of them to coach over the following 10 
to 12 weeks." The teams selected receive froml O I in exchange for~ , I 
share of their company, and at the end of the mentorship program, the company's co-founders work 
with the startups for six additional weeks to secure I I. After that, each company becomes 
an alumnus of the program and the cycle begins again. 
The Petitioner submitted a I 12015 letter from I I founder and managing director, I I who addresses the highly competitive nature of the program and notes that it makes 
"the endorsement from I ~highly elite and prestigious international membership and award." I I explains thatl O _ chooses start-ups with "company founders who already have a 
history of extraordinary entrepreneurial and leadership accomplishments," noting that they consider 
"the potential for the business to generate a massive impact, as well as the personal qualifications of 
the founders and their ability to lead a company from inception along the critical trajectory towards 
success." 
However, the totality of the evidence provided regarding I ~ and its activities does not establish 
that its start-up incubator program is an "association" in the Beneficiary's field or that it admits 
individuals as "members" as required by the plain language of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii). For example, the announcement of new program participants on I Is 
website lists company names, not the names of the participating companies' founders. While the 
evidence supports the Petitioner's claim that it was accepted to this program, in part, based on the 
Beneficiary's past business achievements and proven leadership abilities, the Beneficiary's 
6 
membership as an individual in an assocrnt10n in accordance with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ii) has not been established. For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not met this 
burden. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in 
the food service industry based on his leadership of both I land the petitioning company. The 
Petitioner also asserts that the Director did not apply the preponderance of the evidence standard in 
determining that the Beneficiary's acknowledged original contributions were not shown to be of 
"major significance." 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that the 
beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 8 The contributions must 
have already been realized, rather than being prospective possibilities. It must also establish that the 
Beneficiary's contributions rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than 
to a project or to an organization. The phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and thus has 
meaning. See Silverman v. Eastrich Multiple Investor Fund, L.P., 51 F.3d 28, 31 (3d Cir. 1995), 
quoted in APWU v. Potter, 343 F.3d 619, 626 (2d Cir. 2003). For example, a petitioner may show 
that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted 
or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
With respect tol I the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary made a contribution of major 
significance to the food delivery industry in Argentina. Specifically, it states that he 1 I I , I food for all Argentinians" based on his "ingenious marriage of smartphone ordering and 
marketing a previously! I food item to a mass audience ?t lourrir price P,Oints." The 
Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's selection for the Forbesllist, and I , ~s 
receipt of a Mobile Marketing Association! I bronze award for mobile commerce, are strong 
evidence of the company's major impact on the industry. Upon review of this evidence, as well as 
testimonials and other media coverage regarding! I the Petitioner has not established the 
major significance of the Beneficiary's contribution to Argentina's food industry. 
A 2011 article published by La Nacion, j I' indicates thatl l's 
original business model was to 'I I' that could compete at the same 
price point ar pjzza and evipanadas" and to spread the market beyond the existing dine-in I I 
restaurants in~_ ----~J Another 2011 article titled 'published by Clarin, 
includes quotes from the Beneficiar about and its business model, but also quotes 
representatives from I I and '-------1 which appear to operate simi~elivery 
businesses in the same geographic area in Argentina. The article acknowledges c===:J as the 
"leading company in the delivery category," but does not support the Petitioner's claim that the 
company remarkably impacted the industry in which it operates. Similarly, an article published by 
Brando magazine, notes that I ts business has "modified the frequency and habit in the 
followers of this food," but it does not establish that the Beneficiary's business model rises to the level 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 
of an original business contribution of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner also re-submits 
and references an article in PlanetaJoy, "a prominent Argfutiuiau food m1~lication," titled I I 
.__ ___ ---. _________ __,_._"_T_h_e_a_rt_,icle is about~_ -----~Jrestaurant, but mentions 
"the ownersi..,------i-----,--,---....,..,....-,-----,1" in its introduction to the restaurant. The passing 
reference to ~-- .......... as "revolutionary" in this article does not provide sufficient information to 
explain how the Beneficiary remarkably influenced his field by implementing the concept of ~ I 
delivery business. 
The Petitioner also submitted testimonials from business experts and investors who highly pr~ 
Beneficiar( s business acumen and , , achieved withl 19 For exampleL__J I Executive Chairman o '--~-~---' states that the Beneficiary, with little overhead, 
"was able to popularize and commodity L--___,-__,way that it had never been in Argentina, making 
the food into a cultural fad and elevating · · illion dollar franchise" I I 
~ I Chairman and Board Director with , notes that I I "made an 
1 J food accessible to thousands of consumers by creating an e-commerce model with 
commissary kitchen and delivery messengers, which cut the costs ar5ociated ]lith traditional brick and 
mortarl !restaurants." I ~ states that the.__ __ _____. business model, "which 
integrated technology, the current economic trends, and the consumer demand, provided a completely 
novel method of operating a business in the food industry, pushing the boundaries of traditional 
restaurants." While he praises the originality of the Beneficiary's idea, he does not describe in detail 
how the Beneficiary's business model remarkably impacted the food industry in Argentina or beyond. 
With respect to the petitioning company, the Petitioner states that, as of the date of the appeal, it has 
raised cumulative investments of nearly $6.5 million, and emphasizes that "the brand is unique from 
competitors in the meal preparation delivery industry in that its meals come pre-made from private 
chefs, providing the work of accomplished chefs to consumers at affordable prices." The Petitioner 
maintains that the concept behind the company is of major significance in the food industry "q.S....the., 
first affordable private chef-to-consumer service directly fulfilling a U.S. consumer need in theL_J 
I • lmarket." The supporting evidence reflects that the Petitioner's business plan is based on a 
novel concept, has received considerable interest and fonding from investors, and has achieved steady 
growth since the Petitioner relocated to the United States to direct the company as its CEO in 2016. 
However, the Petitioner has not articulated a claim that the company has had a wider impact on the 
food industry, as opposed to offering a well-received new food delivery option to consumers in some 
parts ofl I 
The Petitioner provided a letter froml I Vice President of.__ _________ who 
praises the Petitioner's creative business talent, notes that investors consider the petitioning company 
to be a "promising venture" expected to "grow aggressivelf' and opines that the Beneficiary "will 
make a great contribution to the United States." In addition,_ I expresses his 
opinion that the Beneficiary's "innovative contributions and leadership acumen" will allow the 
Petitioner to "positively impact the restaurant industry and stimulate the local economy," He farther 
states that the Petitioner "will impact the way that brick and mortar business in the restaurant industry 
operate here in the United States" and refers to it as a "once-in-a-generation company." But he does 
not explain how the Beneficiary has already made a contribution of major significance to the U.S. food 
9 Although we discuss a sampling of the submitted letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
8 
industry or how it is expected to change the way traditional restaurants operate. Rather, he generally 
asserts that "this business model envisions a new food system that will reach out to millions of 
consumers." 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary has achieved considerable success as a food industry 
entrepreneur by developing novel concepts and successfully raising fonds and implementing his 
business plans, first in Argentina and now in the United States. However, the submitted letters do not 
reflect detailed information explaining how the Beneficiary's original contributions are tantamount to 
major significance in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are 
of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 10 On the other hand, 
letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 11 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Beneficiary has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
11 Id. at 9. 
9 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of the Petitioner's work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5061971 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a rowing coach, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See hnmigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition and subsequent motion to reopen, 
concluding that the record did not establish that that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten 
initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria, and that the record establishes his sustained national and international acclaim 
in his field. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a rower that · ted with the I I national team and with the 
University of.__ ____ ----.----,-------' rowing team He also served as a coach with the I I Rowing Association ----1 and with thd I Rowing Association c=]. The 
Petitioner indicates, and the record reflects, that he intends to continue to work as a rowing coach in 
the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
In his analysis, however, the Director discounted the documentary evidence relating to the Petitioner's 
career as a rower. We disagree with the Director's analysis on this issue, and will instead evaluate all 
evidence relating to the Petitioner's rowing achievements as both an athlete and a coach. 1 
1 We note that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) provides: 
In general, if a beneficiary has clearly achieved recent national or international acclaim as an athlete and has 
sustained that acclaim in the field of coaching/managing at a national level, adjudicators can consider the 
totality of the evidence as establishing an overall pattern of sustained acclaim and extraordinary ability such 
that we can conclude that coaching is within the beneficiary's area of expertise. 
AFM chapter 22.22(i)(l)(C) (Emphasis in original) 
2 
In his decisions, the Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), those relating to service as a judge of the work of others and to performance in a 
leading or critical role, but did not meet the criterion relating to awards. 
The record contains race results and media coverage of the races, showing that the Petitioner was a 
crewmember in boats consisting of between two and eight rowers receiving medals at national and 
world championships. He also P,rovides documentation establishing the distinguished reputation of 
the I lnational team and thel I rowing team. Accordingly, we agree with the Director 
that the Petitioner meets the criterion for leading or critical role. 
However, as discussed below, we do not find that the Petitioner meets the criterion for judging. This 
notwithstanding, we conclude that the Petitioner meets the requirements of two additional criteria, 
those for awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In denying the initial petition, the Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's receipt of multiple awards 
as a rower, as well as evidence showing that rowing teams that he coached were recipients of several 
awards. He discounted the former as the Beneficiary received them as an athlete, as opposed to his 
intended field of endeavor as a coach, and the latter because these awards were "limited to participants 
of these competitions." The Director also found that the record lacked evidence of media coverage or 
other materials demonstrating that these awards were nationally or internationally recognized for 
excellence in the field of rowing. 
Here, as noted by the Director, the record contains evidence that the Petitioner received a silver medal 
at the 20061 I Rowing Championships, a bronze medal at the 2008 I I Rowing 
Championships. In addition, the record contains media articles published! lnewspapers about 
the Petitioner's success in these international competitions. The record farther reflects that the 
Petitioner won a bronze medal in the D at the 2014 '-----~-----------­
National Championship, the men'sl I championship. The Petitioner also provides articles 
about theD championship published online at usrowing.com2 and in the San Francisco Chronicle. 
This is sufficient to show that he received nationally or internationally recognized awards for 
excellence in rowing. 
The record also contains documentation showing teams he has coached were recipients of bronze 
medals at the 2015 Regatta, a gold medal in theO in the 2017 and 2018 U.S. 
Rowin Championships, and gold medals in the D at the 201 71 I 
~-~ Regatta. However, the description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the 
focus should on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 Thus, documentation of awards won by 
teams the Petitioner has coached is not sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion 
2 Usrowing.com is the website for US Rowing, the national governing body for rowing in the United States. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 
as a rowing coach. However, as we have concluded that the Petitioner meets this criterion as a rower, 
we will withdraw the Director's finding in this matter. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The record reflects that the Petitioner was a member of the rowm national team 
competing at the 2005 and 20061 I Rowing Cham sand the~---~rowing 
national I I team competing at the 2007 and 2009 Rowing Championships. 4 
The Petitioner provides the selection plans for both the~_~national rowing team and the I I 
national rowing teams that show that the selection criteria for membership on these teams is based 
upon wins at a series of international competitions, surervised lby national experts. For example, the 
selection plan for the I I rowing national team requires a first or second place 
finish in 1 lrtegory"I on both days ofthegn-ternational Regatta, as well as a first place finish 
fo~ I in the category or a medal in a~--~btegory on the first day of thd.__ _ ___.bpen 
regatta, and a medal in al I category on the second day of thq I regatta. This evidence is 
sufficient to demonstrate that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied _field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner provided evidence sufficient to establish that he met this 
criterion. However, upon review we disagree with the Director's conclusion. As evidence that he has 
served as a judge of the work of others in the field of rowing, the Petitioner submits his nationjl rowingl 
umpire license from the I I Rdwingroundation I I He also provides a letter from 
I I secretary general of th confyming t1at the Petitioner served as a licensed national 
umpire for numerous regattas, such as the 2008 Rowing CupOand the 2008, and 2011-2014 
International Regatta I I Open. In a second letter. I I confirms, "[The Petitioner] 
took part in umpiring many state and regional regattas with great skill and focus on fair racing 
conditions." He describes the Petitioner's role in this capacity as overseeing "large numbers ofrowers, 
ensuring that they complied with race rules demonstrating great responsibility and further ensuring 
fair conditions for all." 
However, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) requires that the Petitioner provide evidence of 
his participation "either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others." Neither the 
umpiring license norl Is letters demonstrate how the Petitioner's role in ensuring 
rowers' compliance with race rules and in providing fair conditions for their races equates to 
evaluating or judging their work or skill as rowers. The record lacks other evidence, such as the 
4 
official rules for these regattas, establishing that umpiring these races requires judging the work of 
others, as opposed to enforcing the rules of a race and ensuring sportsmanlike conditions. Further, the 
Petitioner does not submit evidence demonstrating that he has served as a judge of the work of other 
coaches. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion, and we will 
withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary. 
While we have withdrawn the Director's finding regarding judging, we do find that the Petitioner has 
established that he fulfills at least three regulatory criteria and will evaluate the totality of the evidence 
in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 5 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner indicates that he began his career as a rower in 2003, competing as a member of._l __ _. 
national team from 2004 until 2009, and on the.___-.--__ ...,cr"""o-'-w'""i=n.,, team from 2011 through 2014. 
In 2015, the Petitioner served as the head coach in the class and assistant coach for the I I teams at I I In 2017, he joined the as coach for thel I teams and an 
assistant coach for th~ .... ---~~ team. 
Regarding his sustained acclaim as a rower, the record reflects that the Petitioner has consistently 
competed and garnered awards in rowing chamf onships, performing critical roles as a member of the I bational team and the highly regarded I team. For example, in addition to the 
awards discussed above, the Petitioner provides documentation showing that he placed third in the 
20081 I championships, and competed in the finals of the 2007._ _ __.~owing Championship 
and the 2007 I I Rowing Cup The record further reflects that he was recruite~ provided 
with a full athletic scholarshi to in 2011 where he competed on thel______J boat until 
2014. As a member of th rowing team, the record shows that the Petitioner won a 
bronze medal in the.__ ____ _.Championship. The Petitioner has therefore established that he 
garnered sustained national or international acclaim as an athlete through 2014, and was one of the 
few at the top of his field. 
However, the Petitioner indicates his intention to continue working in the United States as a rowing 
coach, not as a rower. Therefore, we must evaluate whether he has sustained his acclaim as an athlete 
into his career as a coach. Turning to the evidence regarding that aspect of his career, the record 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 4 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
5 
reflects that the Petitioner began his coaching career as a coach of thel l and continued his work 
as a coach for thee=] in 2017. During his tenure with then the I f team that he 
co-coached wit , head coach, placed third in the 201{ I Re?atta. The 
r------i-------' for whom he was head coach, Jlacel first at the U.S. Rowing L I 
L..-__ ....,......~==i=on==,ships. While he was a coach for th junior men's team, the record reflects 
that the teams won gold medals in four boat classes at the U.S. Rowing! I 
Championships. ~--~ 
With respect to the competitions attended and awards won by teams during the Petitioner's tenure as 
a coach, the record reflects that these were at a regional level, rather at the national and international 
levels in which the Petitioner demonstrated acclaim as an athlete. For example, as we discuss above, 
the record establishes the awards won by I I at the l J S I I 
Championships, and by the I I at the U.S I I Championships. 
However, the USRowing article indicates that there is an USRowing Youth Nationals Championship. 
The record does not show that members of thel I freshman team competed at these national 
championships. Similarly, an article in the Marin Inde endent Journal states that members of the 
.__ ________ __. boat competed at the Rowing Championships, but does not 
indicate whether the members of the.__ ___ ___, team that the Petitioner coached did so. Further, 
the record does not provide evidence showing that thee=] teams competed at either the national or 
international rowing championships. Overseeing teams whose members competed and won at the 
regional level, in contrast with the national and international competitions for which the Petitioner 
garnered acclaim as an athlete, does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has sustained this 
acclaim as a coach, or was one at the top of his field. 
As it relates to the critical role that the Petitioner played in these outcomes, he submits numerous 
letters of recommendation.I I two-time Olympic gold medalist, notes the Petitioner's 
role atLJ in, "building the technical, physiological and psychological foundation fo~, 0 I 
athletes" where I I executive director and ~r I I states, "[h ]e is 
individually responsible for his athletes on a daily basis." notes that atl I the 
Petitioner "regularly used to employ skills ... such as stroke mec amcs, motivational techillye~, i~ 
workout regimes" that he learned froml I with the "demonstrable outcome" being s 
third place finish at the I lin the ~-------___,'s 8. As it relates to 
I I, formerLJ board president, asserts, "[the Petitioner] emphasized making changes 
together," an approach that "enhanced team cohesion and led to significant increases in boat speed." 
She attributes his work toc=J' s •-------~teams medaling in some of the most competitive 
events in the US." While these letters generally describe the Petitioner's contributions to these clubs 
as a coach, they lack detailed examples of how the Petitioner's work as a coach resulted in the stated 
outcomes. Further, they do not differentiate him from other coaches, either withinLJ andc=J or 
nationally, in a manner that might demonstrate his national or international acclaim as a rowing coach. 
Thus, while the Petitioner has established that he enjoyed national and international acclaim through 
his success as an athlete, these letters do not demonstrate that he sustained this level of acclaim as a 
rowing coach. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under 
section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act as a rowing coach. As such, we need not determine whether he is 
coming to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )( a)(ii). 
6 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from 
denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, 
regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS approves 
prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 
2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. 
Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajj'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our 
authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is 
comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center 
director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow 
that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra 
v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). However, he has not demonstrated sustained national acclaim and that his 
achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. He therefore has not 
established his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for 
the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24993035 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a pianist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pianist and contends she has sustained national and international acclaim. Because 
the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized award, 
she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (vii), display of her work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases 
• (viii), evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to the display of her work in 
the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases and evidence that she performed in a leading or critical 
role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that her evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the Petitioner's display of her work and 
performance in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishment that have a distinguished 
reputation. But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the other claimed criterion. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she has received lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was for excellence in the 
field include, but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes, the national or 
international significance of the awards or prizes in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
The Petitioner states that she received the following awards and documented her receipt by submitting 
copies of her award certificates: 
• First Prize 
• First Prize in the Petitioner's age group, 2020 
• First Prize, 2019 _____ International Competition Series ______ 
I I 
• First Prize, 2020 _____ International Competition Series called 
of Europe" 
• Second Prize, 202ol !International Music Com etition 
• Second Priz 2021 
• First Prize, 2020 _____________ Competition 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the awards qualify as 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field. We agree with 
that determination. 
The Petitioner stated that th _________________ is an international music 
competition, and the first prize winners perform in the full-length evening concert at 
As a first-place winner, the Petitioner placed in The I Debut Concert at ____ 
However, the record does not contain any additional information or supporting evidence regarding the 
competition to support the Petitioner's claim that her first prize award should be considered a 
nationally or internationally award for excellence in the field of classical music. Absent, for example, 
information regarding the number of competitors in the Petitioner's age category, or evidence of the 
level of recognition associated with this award, we cannot find that the Petitioner has satisfied each 
element of the criterion. While the Petitioner provided information of previous winners of this 
competition, that is not sufficient to satisfy this element of this criterion. 
The 1s o en to all pianists and participants from all over the 
world. The Petitioner stated that she was artici ants awarded the first prize out of 90 
participants. She also stated she won in 2021 in the same competition 
out of 130 participants. The Petitioner indicated that the competition's Y ouTube channel has 1,220 
subscribers with 158,974 views. The Petitioner submitted a screenshot from thel I I I website regarding participation rules and general information of the competition. The 
Petitioner also submitted a letter from the founder and CEO of the I I I lthat stated they have participants from all over the world, and the jury is guided by a 
grading system. The letter also confirmed the Petitioner was among the winners in 2020 and 2021, 
2 Id. (indicating that an award limited to competitors from a single institution, for example, may have little national or 
international significance.) 
3 
and it listed other previous winners that are professional pianists. The record does not contain official 
results or other evidence demonstrating the number of entrants in the competition or in the Petitioner's 
category in the years in which she won. In addition, the Petitioner indicated in the year she was 
awarded first prize, four other individuals in her age group also were awarded first prize. Finally, the 
submitted statements indicate that entry to the competition was age-restricted and not open to all 
musicians who may have been competitive for top prizes. 
In addition, although the supporting evidence indicates that the compet1t10n seeks and attracts 
participants from different countries, we note that showing a diverse pool of competitors, without 
more, does not establish the requisite recognition. While the evidence reflects other winners received 
some media attention for their awards, the record lacks sufficient evidence verifying that prizes and 
awards issued by this competition are nationally or internationally recognized awards for excellence 
in the field, or evidence that the Petitioner herself received any recognition from outside the issuing 
organization. 
The Petitioner stated she was awarded first pnze m the 2019 International 
Competition Series I I She also explained the competition is open to 
all instrumentalities and singers up to the age of 25, and the applicants are divided into seven age 
groups. The Petitioner also stated that she won first prize for the 2020 I !International 
Competition Service called! !which is open to all European instrumentalists 
and singers up to 25 years of age. As with the other awards the Petitioner received, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence regarding the official results, the number of competitors and prize 
winners in each age and instrument category, or other evidence related to the specific category in 
which she received an award. We cannot determine that the Petitioner's first prize awards for these 
two competitions are a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence. 
The Petitioner stated she was awarded second prize overall at the 20201 I International Music 
Competition. She stated contestants are divided into four categories based on age. According to the 
submitted printout from I I website, the competition is open to contestants of all nationalities 
and countries up to 25 years of age, and the contestants are divided into four age groups. The Petitioner 
was one of seven contestants that won the second prize in her category of contestants up to the age of 
10 years old. The evidence does not document how many contestants participated in the 2020 
competition in the Petitioner's age group. In addition, as noted before, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence regarding the official results, the number of competitors and prize winners in each 
age and instrument category, or other evidence related to the specific category in which she received 
an award. We cannot determine that the Petitioner's first prize awards for these two competitions are 
a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence. 
The Petitioner stated she won first prize in the 2020 
Competition. According to the submitted print out from the competition website, it is open to students 
of educational institutions implementing programs in the the field of musical art between the ages of 6 to 
18. Further, while these articles confirm that drew participants from outside the United States, 
the evidence does not establish that the competition awards nationally or internationally recognized 
pnzes. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
4 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends she is a member of the I 
The Petitioner stated that she is a soloist of the performance cantate choir of I I and became a 
member through an audition process. The Petitioner submitted a letter from the co-founder and artistic 
director of1 !stating that I lis a "unique, inclusive music enrichment program that welcomes 
a diverse group of children ages 8-18," and the organization has grown to seven choirs with over 350 
singers in its core program, and over 1,000 children in its afterschool program. The Petitioner did not 
provide sufficient evidence to establish thatl lis an "association." In addition, the evidence does 
not explain how the children are chosen to be in the core program or afterschool program. Without 
more evidence of the program and the requirements to enter the program, it is impossible to determine 
if it requires outstanding achievements of their members. Membership requirements based on activity 
in a given field or knowledge in a given field to be a member do not satisfy this criterion as such 
requirements do not constitute outstanding achievements. The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence to support the claim that the I I requires outstanding achievements of its members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts. Accordingly, the Petitioner does not meet this 
criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion since she was featured in a television ro ram 
the I in a segment that was 
The Petitioner stated that the website indicated that this program is 
"popular with up to 12,000 viewers weekly" in the ___ Florida area. In order to satisfy this 
criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material. 3 
The Petitioner submitted printouts from the website indicating that 
onl I 2022, the Petitioner was profiled as a pianist on th show. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
5 
However, this evidence was accompanied by the requisite translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Nor 
did the Petitioner provide sufficient evidence to establish that l ________ qualifies as a 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
The Petitioner submitted information from the website stating that 
the Civic Association started producing a weekly video newscast in the 2017-2018 season with up to 
12,000 weekly viewers. However, the Petitioner did not provide any information regarding the current 
viewership of the show. Although the Petitioner claims that the program is popular in the Town of I land surrounding areas, she did not provide any farther, detailed information showing the 
status of the television program as a major medium. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not show that she 
meets this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 4 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24733936 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a judo and sambo athlete and coach who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner was previously a sambo and judo athlete, and he now applies for this restrictive 
immigrant classification as a judo coach or instructor. He indicates he will work in that area in the 
United States. The Petitioner claims that he has received a major, internationally recognized award­
as a competitor-and he has satisfied the requisite number of regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
A. One-tirne Achievement 
The Petitioner claims that hisl I awarded at the World Sambo Championship is a 
major, internationally recognized award that constitutes a qualifying one-time achievement. The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence purporting to be a 
major, internationally recognized award. 
Congress intended to restrict this immigrant classification to "that small percentage of individuals who 
have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the regulation permitting eligibility based on a 
one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, with only a small handful of awards 
qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), 
reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. Given that the House Report 
specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement, examples of one-time 
awards which enjoy major, international recognition may include the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy 
Award, and (most relevant for athletics) an Olympic Medal. 
The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be 
a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The selection of Nobel Laureates, 
the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the 
nationality of the awardees, is a familiar name to the public at large and includes a large cash prize. 
While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement 
without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award 
must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the alien's field as one of the top awards in 
that field. 
The Petitioner provided evidence of his I I finish in his weight category at the World Sambo 
Championship in I including the official results of the competition as posted by the International 
2 
Sambo Federation, the international governing body of the sport. Although hisl I is a 
notable athletic achievement, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) requires the one-time 
achievement to be "a major, international[ly] recognized award." The Petitioner did not present 
evidence, for example, establishing that the competition is widely reported by international media, is 
recognized by the general public, or garners attention comparable to other major, globally recognized 
awards such as Academy Award winners. He provided evidence that his receipt of the award was 
covered by a sports publication in his native country of Tajikistan, but the record does not contain 
evidence of international coverage of this event. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that his receipt of a ____ at the World 
Sambo Championships meets the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director decided that the Petitioner failed to satisfy any of the regulatory 
criteria associated with: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; or 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six of the regulatory criteria. After reviewing all the 
evidence in the record, we conclude not only that the Petitioner has failed to demonstrate eligibility, 
but we also observe a curious tactic he and his counsel appear to have employed that we will address 
after the final merits determination section of this decision. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Citing to Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002), the Director determined that 
competing and coaching are markedly different, and the Petitioner's coaching-related evidence and 
claims did not satisfy this criterion's requirements. We agree with this statement and note that awards 
a foreign national earns as a competitor generally cannot be relied upon to prove their extraordinary 
ability in coaching or instructing under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). See Mussarova v. Garland, 562 F. 
Supp. 3d 837, 843-44 (C.D. Cal. 2022) (citing Lee, 237 F. Supp. 2d at 918); see also Integrity 
Gymnastics & Pure Power Cheerleading, LLC v. United States Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 131 F. 
Supp. 3d 721, 729-31 (S.D. Ohio 2015) (finding it appropriate to disregard distant claims and evidence 
as a competitor under the regulatory criteria when the foreign national is applying as a coach or 
instructor). This will be a recurring concept throughout this decision. 
3 
On appeal, the Petitioner does not address this aspect of the Director's decision (i.e., he failed to 
identify a specific error in the Director's decision under this criterion) to demonstrate why we should 
consider his prizes or awards as a competitor as being in his "field of endeavor" as the regulation 
requires. The reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the means to remedy 
what they perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a previous 
proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l )(v). By presenting only a generalized statement of eligibility 
without explaining the specific aspects of the Director's decision they consider to be incorrect, the 
affected party has failed to identify the basis for contesting this requirement on appeal. Matter of 
O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter of R-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 
(BIA 2012) and finding when a filing party mentions an issue without developing an argument, the 
issue is deemed waived). The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which classification 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director noted his memberships were based on his performance as an athlete, but because he claims 
eligibility for this restrictive immigrant classification as a coach or instrnctor, the evidence in the 
record fell short of satisfying the regulatory requirements. 
Within the appeal brief, the Petitioner revisits his claims regarding his memberships as a competitor 
but fails to address the Director's main point: his competitor-related memberships will not serve to 
satisfy the regulation because he is applying as a coach. As the Petitioner does not rebut the Director's 
primary basis for not granting this criterion, he has effectively abandoned or waived his claims to this 
criterion on appeal. O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. at 336 n.5. The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility 
under this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner's appellate claims under this criterion suffer a similar outcome as the two above criteria; 
the Director made an adverse finding based on the claims and evidence relating to his acclaim as a 
competitor when he was applying as an instrnctor. And again on appeal, the Petitioner focuses on 
aspects that were not part of the Director's decision. Instead of addressing the competitor versus 
coaching aspect, the Petitioner focuses on regulatory requirements that were not included in the denial. 
In sum, he has effectively abandoned or waived his claims to this criterion on appeal. O-R-E-, 28 I&N 
Dec. at 336 n.5. The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This criterion requires not only that the Petitioner was selected to serve as a judge, but also that the 
Petitioner is able to produce evidence that he actually participated as a judge. Additionally, these 
duties must have been directly judging the work of others in the same or an allied field in which the 
Petitioner seeks an immigrant classification within the present petition. The Petitioner must submit 
evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Before the Director in the initial filing, the Petitioner submitted one reference letter to support his 
eligibility under this criterion. The Director issued a request for additional evidence and in response, 
the Petitioner only reiterated his previous claims. After reviewing the entire record, we note an issue 
with the Petitioner's previous evidence he submitted under this criterion when he filed a previous 
appeal in September 2019. Within our decision on that appeal, we acknowledged two letters he 
submitted that contained conflicting information between the letters and with the Petitioner's own 
claims about his service as a judge of the work of others. The conflict related to the years he served 
as a judge (i.e. between 2006 and 2013 as opposed to between 2007 and 2009). Based on those 
incongrnities we determined the Petitioner did not satisfy his burden of proof. 
Instead of addressing those inconsistencies within the current petition filing and this appeal, to deal 
with the inconsistencies the Petitioner simply omitted one of the letters. In general, a Petitioner must 
ameliorate discrepant information in the record. Such a resolution should be demonstrated through 
the submission of relevant, independent, and objective evidence that reveals which facts are trne. See 
Matter of Ho, 19 T&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because the Petitioner has not remedied the 
previous inconsistency, we cannot ignore it here and it serves to significantly diminish the evidentiary 
value of his claims and evidence for this criterion within the current petition. 
It is permissible for us to consider significant similarities between statements submitted by petitioners 
in different proceedings. Matter of R-K-K-, 26 I&N Dec. 658,659 (BIA 2015); Singh v. Garland, 20 
F.4th 1049, 1054 (5th Cir. 2021); Wang v. Lynch, 824 F.3d 587, 592 (6th Cir. 2016) (finding that 
inter-application similarities can serve as a predominant basis for an adverse ruling, as long as the 
filing party is afforded an opportunity to explain them). Where the record contains more indications 
of questionable credibility in addition to dissimilarities between statements in the present and other 
cases, as long as U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) details the other inconsistencies, 
it is not always necessary to afford the filing party the opportunity to explain the questionable 
materials. Singh, 20 F .4th at l 054. Our dismissal of the Petitioner's September 2019 appeal placed 
him on notice that he should provide additional probative evidence to resolve the inconsistency 
between his claims and the letters. Here, we have again notified him that he must address and resolve 
this issue in any future filing, to include a motion he might file on this decision. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility under this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets six criteria, because his arguments fail on 
any of the criteria discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claims under the contributions or 
5 
leading or critical role requirements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement 
of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See 
INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds 
when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 
568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. FINAL MERITS DETERMINATION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
IV. DUPLICATING CLAIMS FROM PREVIOUS PETITION 
We begin this section noting an important finding. The Petitioner's identical claims he presents within 
this appeal, were submitted in a separate appeal to this office in September 2019. We not only 
addressed the issues he raised in that brief in our dismissal of that appeal, but we also upheld that 
determination in a subsequent motion to reopen and reconsider. As a result, the Petitioner's arguments 
and evidence as presented in this appeal have already been litigated with this office and were found to 
be inadequate. 
A review of the current appeal brief and the brief he submitted with the September 2019 appeal, reveal 
they are identical-word-for-word-except the date and petition receipt number on the cover page, as 
well as counsel's signature on the final page. It appears the Petitioner's brief for this appeal was not 
tailored to the Director's decision on this petition, and instead was drafted to address the Director's 
August 2019 decision on a previous petition. While we will not go into detail of whether this 
constitutes a frivolous filing, it appears Petitioner's counsel drafted this brief and filed it with this 
office reflecting little or no attention to the specific factual or legal issues applicable to this case. Such 
a practice is not a proper means in which to file an appeal. 
6 
V. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25690671 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence 
requirements of this classification by demonstrating his receipt of a major, internationally recognized 
award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). We 
dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision, as well as five subsequent motions. The matter 
is now before us on a six motion, which is a motion to reopen. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof 
to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the motion. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion that does not satisfy 
the applicable requirements must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
The procedural history relating to this filing is lengthy and it is not necessary for us to restate it here. 
We incorporate the history by reference from our previous discussion on the matter. The issues here 
are whether the Petitioner has submitted new facts, supported by documentary evidence, to warrant 
reopening our decision on his fifth motion. General support that a motion must first overcome the 
most recent decision lies within the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)-(3) where it repeatedly 
discusses the underlying or latest decision, it limits the time one has to file a motion after the most 
recent decision, and it references jurisdiction resting with the entity who made the latest decision. This 
demonstrates that any motion must first address and overcome the most recent adverse decision before 
the filing party's arguments may move on to any issue that arose in a previous petition, appeal, or 
motion filing. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner addresses issues spanning topics from the Director's original 
denial to our decision on his fourth motion. But he does not address the content of our decision in 
response to his fifth motion, which he must mandatorily do first before we may move to consider any 
other eligibility factors. Our decision on his fifth motion boils down to a similar issue here. In that 
decision, he failed to first address the issues within our decision that preceded that motion. For this 
reason, we determine the Petitioner has not overcome our reasoning within his fifth motion dismissal 
through new evidence in this motion to reopen. 
We also address the numerous motion filings based on the original petition. Multiple motion filings 
serve to thwart the strong public interest in bringing issues to a close, particularly in immigration 
proceedings where every delay works to the filing party's advantage who wishes to remain in the 
United States. Cf Hernandez-Ortiz v. Garland, 32 F.4th 794, 800-01 (9th Cir. 2022) (citing INS v. 
Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323 (1992) and INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 107-08 (1988)). USCIS has the 
latitude and discretion to be restrictive in granting motions, as granting them too freely can create 
endless delays to a final resolution, not to mention needlessly wasting government resources attending 
to repeated requests. Cf Abudu, 485 U.S. at 108. This demonstrates why a filing party bears a "heavy 
burden" when they seek a motion, and that burden incrementally increases with each subsequent 
motion filing. Id. 
Generally, when a previous motion was dismissed because the filing party failed to meet the regulatory 
requirements of a motion, a subsequent motion filing must first overcome the shortcomings within the 
decision that immediately preceded the current filing. And after a filing party has filed a significant 
number of motions, it becomes increasingly difficult to overcome each sequential preceding 
decision-in seriatim fashion-to eventually return to the eligibility claims they originally asserted. 
In some instances, simply refiling a new petition could be a more expeditious and less burdensome 
method to possibly receive a favorable decision on a petition. While we do not suggest that this 
Petitioner should abandon his efforts of filing future motions with this office and instead file a new 
petition, it is a factor he may wish to consider. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that we should reopen the proceedings. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2024 In Re: 29808503 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a marketplace entrepreneur, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
not satisfied the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. In addition, the 
Director determined that the Petitioner had not established his intent to continue to work in his area 
expertise in the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen's] entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must provide sufficient 
qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner claims to have worked as a marketplace entrepreneur in Russia where he specialized in 
e-commerce. He claims that his achievements in his field of expertise have been recognized on a 
national level. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner only met the plain language 
requirements of two evidentiary criteria relating to judging the work of others at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
related to published materials (iii) and leading or critical role (viii). The Petitioner does not address or 
contest on appeal the Director's finding that he does not meet the membership criterion (ii) or the criterion 
relating to original contributions of major significance (v). Accordingly, we deem these grounds to be 
waived. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 
(BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
Based on our de novo review, we conclude that the Petitioner has not established that he meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted translated copies of Russian-language articles from various websites. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to satisfy this 
criterion. In addition to determining that some material was not primarily about the Petitioner, the 
Director also noted that several online articles lacked the name of the author and the publication date, 
and had inaccessible or illegible uniform resource locators (URL) as evidence of their publication on 
the claimed websites. Further, the Director noted that the articles were not supported by citation 
statistics or independent information about the publications in which they appeared. Accordingly, the 
Director requested additional evidence to overcome these evidentiary deficiencies. In response, the 
Petitioner submitted additional articles and maintained that this new evidence, and the initially 
submitted evidence, satisfied the plain language of this criterion. 
In denying the petition, the Director indicated that none of the published material satisfied all 
requirements stated in the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts 
that the evidence submitted at the time of filing and in response to the request for evidence (RFE) was 
sufficient and disagrees with the Director's conclusions to the contrary. 
We have reviewed the evidence submitted in support ofthis criterion, including evidence not expressly 
mentioned in the denial decision, and conclude that the record supports the Director's determination 
that the Petitioner did not establish that any of the submitted articles satisfy all requirements set forth 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner submitted an article featured in .__________ _. that discusses him and his 
work as a marketplace entrepreneur. The Petitioner submitted an "explanatory note" providing 
information such as the registry documentation for the publication and statements regarding the 
publication's status and reputation. Although the submitted explanatory note claims that the 
publication is one or the largest mass media publications in Russia, USCIS need not rely on the 
self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 
WL 9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that 
we did not have to rely on a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the 
magazine's status as major media). 
The Petitioner also submitted captured screenshots from websites such as Similarweb and Wikipedia, 1 
which it inserted into the body of its supporting documentation. The screenshot from Similarweb 
indicates "total visits" of 80.9 million; however, the Petitioner has not explained how this statistic 
supports a determination that.__ ________ __. qualifies as "major media" by having a high 
circulation or distribution relative to other online publications. Evidence of published material in 
major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that the circulation (online or in print) 
1 As there are no assurances about the reliability of the content from this open, user-edited Internet site, information from 
Wikipedia will be accorded no evidentiary weight. See Lamilem Badasa v. Michael Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
3 
or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the intended audience. 2 Here, the record 
does not contextualize those statistics, indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that information 
could establish that the website is the type ofmajor media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Moreover, given the minimal information regarding the intended audience ofl I 
it cannot be deemed a professional or trade publication. 
The Petitioner also submitted numerous articles regarding e-commerce trends generally; however, as 
noted by the Director, the articles are not specifically about the Petitioner and his work in the field. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner cites to Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440 (N.D. Ill. 1995), arguing that he need 
only establish that there is published material about him and is not required to show that the entire 
focus ofthe articles be on him and his work. The cited decision addresses the specific issue ofwhether 
published materials about a petitioner must demonstrate that they are "one of the best" the field, at the 
""top of the field," or a "star" in the field. There is nothing in Muni to suggest that any article that 
mentions a person's name and their field of work should automatically be deemed to be "about" that 
person. ________________While the Petitioner's name is mentioned in numerous articles, such as those published in 
.__ __,, and he is quoted in portions ofthe articles that mention 
e-commerce trends, the articles are not about him. The plain language of this criterion requires 
published material to contain a title, date, and an author; to be about the Petitioner and his work in the 
field; and to be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. USCIS does 
not consider articles which mention the Petitioner's name in passing to be about him and his work in 
the field. 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
For the purposes of this criterion, a leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall 
organizational hierarchy and through the role's matching duties. A critical role should be apparent 
from the Petitioner's impact on the organization or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's 
performance in this role should establish whether the role was critical for the organization or 
establishment as a whole. 
The Petitioner initially asserted that he is known as a professional of the highest level in the 
e-commerce sphere, and claimed to have performed in a critical role for I I andI rentities the Petitioner claims are online marketplace retailers in Russia. The Petitioner 
submitted letters of recommendation and press articles to demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
The Director reviewed the recommendation letters provided, but determined that the evidence did not 
establish the Petitioner's critical role for the entities named, nor did the record reflect that the 
organizations had a distinguished reputation. Accordingly, the Director issued an RFE requesting 
2 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (discussing circulation or 
viewership ). 
3 While we only discuss a sampling of the published material here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 
additional evidence. In response, the Petitioner submitted additional documentation and 
recommendation letters to demonstrate that he satisfied the requirements of this criterion. The 
Petitioner also asserted for the first time that that he performed in a critical role for a third online 
marketplace retailer,! I 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that aside from confirming that the Petitioner had a 
business relationship with these organizations, whether he performed in a leading or critical role could 
not be determined based on the recommendation letters and other documentation provided. On appeal, 
the Petitioner lists the evidence he previously submitted initially and in response to the RFE, and states 
that he provided the "maximum" amount of evidence he could provide. The Petitioner also states: 
My critical role in the development ofl !marketplace in 2021 is obvious not 
only thanks to the letter of thanks from I I but also thanks to the figures that 
show revenue growth in the 4th quarter of 2021, immediately after the conclusion of the 
technical partnership agreement. I believe that the USCIS officer did not study the 
evidence carefully enough on this criterion. 
Here, the Director performed a detailed review of the testimonial evidence submitted in evaluating 
whether the Petitioner meets this criterion, but determined that the evidence did not offer detailed and 
probative information that specifically addressed how the Petitioner's role for these entities was 
leading or critical. The Petitioner does not contest this determination on appeal but rather claims that 
sufficient evidence was submitted, despite the Director's identification of evidentiary deficiencies. 
Despite the testimonial letters praising the Petitioner's business relationship with these entities, the 
evidence is insufficient to demonstrate the Petitioner's impact on these organizations. Moreover, the 
Petitioner does not articulate how the online marketplaces for whom he claimed to perform in a critical 
role qualify as organizations or establishments that have distinguished reputations consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
Since the Petitioner does not specifically articulate on appeal why the Director's conclusions with respect 
to this criterion was incorrect, we will adopt and affirm the Director's conclusions. See Matter of 
Burbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday v. INS, 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) 
(noting that the practice of adopting and affirming the decision below has been "universally accepted by 
every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 8 (1st Cir. 1996) 
(joining eight circuit courts in holding that appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below 
as long as they give "individualized consideration" to the case). 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not established that he meets the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
B. Intent to Continue to Work in the Area of Extraordinary Ability 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets the requirements of at least three of the ten initial 
evidentiary criteria. Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we 
decline to reach and hereby reserve the Petitioner's arguments regarding his intent to continue working 
5 
in his claimed area of expertise. 4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and 
agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results 
they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage at very top of the 
field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 Section 203(b )(1 )( A )(ii) of the Act requires "the [ noncitizen] to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability." In addition. the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(S) states that "the petition must be accompanied 
by clear evidence that the [noncitizen] is coming to the United States to continue work in the area of expertise." See also 
6 USC1S Policy Manual, supra, at F.2(A)(2) (providing that to qualify as a person of extraordinaiy ability, the beneficiaiy 
must intend to continue work in the area of his or her expertise). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2024 In Re: 29530636 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification (EB-1) makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F .R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we 
will withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter for the entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement , a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is fust counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
IL ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a visual artist who specializes in creating large-scale murals. He intends to continue 
working as an artist in the United States. 
As a preliminary matter, we acknowledge that the Petitioner has been the Beneficiary of an approved 
O-lB petition. Although USCIS has approved at least one O-lB nonimmigrant visa petition filed on 
behalf of the Petitioner, this prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying an immigrant visa 
petition which is adjudicated based on a different statute, regulations, and case law. The nonimmigrant 
and immigrant categories have different criteria, definitions and standards for persons working in the 
arts. "Extraordinary ability in the field of arts" in the nonirnrnigrant 0-1 B category means distinction. 
8 C.F.R. § 214.2( o )(3)(ii). But in the immigrant context, "extraordinary ability" reflects that the 
individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met two of the criteria he claimed to have satisfied: 
display of his work at exhibitions or showcases and his performance in leading and critical roles for 
organizations or establishments of distinguished reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) and (viii). 
The record supports this determination . The Director concluded, however, that the Petitioner did not 
establish that he met the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) or (ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner states he does not contest the Director's conclusion regarding his 
qualifications under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of O-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, I&N Dec. 657, 
658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). He asserts on appeal that he meets the criteria at (iii), contending material about 
him and his work has been published in major trade publications and major media. He alleges that the 
Director failed to explain why the evidence submitted was insufficient to satisfy the criterion and that 
the Director failed to properly apply the preponderance-of-the-evidence standard. Upon review, we 
conclude that the Petitioner has met the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
2 
The Petitioner has submitted articles in which he is interviewed or in which his work is discussed in 
online and print publications in Argentina such as C-, P-, and 1-. The Director determined in part that 
as the foreign language translations of these articles were largely insufficient, the evidence did not 
satisfy the plain language of the criterion. Any document provided to USCIS in a foreign language 
must be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The translator 
must certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that they are competent 
to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. We reviewed the foreign language articles 
and the accompanying English translations and conclude that the English translations comport with 
the regulatory requirements at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). We also observe that, with the exception ofone 
article, the foreign language articles are about the Petitioner and his work as required by the plain 
language for the criterion. 
The Director also determined that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to establish 
circulation data or unique site visit numbers to demonstrate that the articles were from professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. We disagree. The Petitioner submitted circulation and 
readership data from independent data collection and consolidation companies and a business 
collaboration platform showing high readership for publications in which articles about the Petitioner 
and his work appeared. Notably, one third-party source in the record for this information is a federally 
funded organization promoting freedom of the press; this organization-which is verifiable through a 
search of open sources-monitors media platforms throughout the world primarily using publicly 
available data and data obtained directly from media companies, political representatives, and research 
institutes. The evidence of record is sufficient to show that several of the publications in which 
material about Petitioner and his work appeared are recognized nationally in Argentina-including 
some operated by G-C-, a major media conglomerate. We conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied 
this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has established his qualifications under criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), 
(vii), and (viii), we will withdraw the Director's denial ofthe petition and remand the matter for further 
review and entry of a new decision. On remand, the Director should conduct a final merits review of 
the evidence of record. The new decision should include an analysis of the totality of the evidence 
evaluating whether the Petitioner has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained 
national or international acclaim, his status as one of the small percentage at the very top of his field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) ofthe Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 
596 F.3d at 1119-20. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 13, 2024 In Re: 29963244 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (National Interest Waiver) 
The Petitioner, an art restorer, collector, and gallery director, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification 
by meeting at least three of the ten evidentiary criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . We agreed with 
the Director and dismissed the appeal. The matter is now before us on a combined motion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. 
Pursuant to 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.5(a)(l)(i) and 103.S(b), motions must generally be filed within 33 days 
of the adverse decision. The untimely filing of a motion to reopen may be excused in the discretion 
of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) where it is demonstrated that the delay was 
reasonable and beyond the control of the applicant. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) . A motion that does not 
meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). The regulations make no 
provision for accepting an untimely filed motion to reconsider. 
We dismissed the appeal on May 24, 2023. After being rejected by the Phoenix Lockbox, the Form 
1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, was not received until August 22, 2023, 90 days after the 
decision. Counsel for the Petitioner apologizes for the untimely response, stating it was due to a delay 
in mail forwarding to their new office address and submits an updated Form G-28, Notice of Entry of 
Appearance as Attorney or Accredited Representative . While we acknowledge the statement on 
motion, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that the untimely filing was reasonable and beyond his 
control. 1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). Therefore, the combined motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider is dismissed. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed . 
1 We note, for example, counsel for the Petitioner did not provide evidence that they informed USCIS of their change of 
address prior to submitting the updated Form G-28 on August 22, 2023. U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22602740 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a tech author, journalist, and educator, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ ll 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing her 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's , Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner contends that her field of extraordinary ability is technology-focused journalism with a 
focus on "tecklash" (backlash to technology), and she wrote a book geared toward academics that 
"examines the history and the powershifts and uncovers the root cause of the backlash against Big Tech." 
She also has made research findings regarding the impact of tech companies and how they should be 
regulated, and her tech journalism delves into issues related to the tech ecosystem . She last arrived in the 
United States in 2021 as an L-2 nonimmigrant, and she is a visiting research fellow at the University of _____________ School for Communication and Journalism. The Petitioner 
contends she has more than a decade of leadership in tech journalism and works as a teacher, lecturer, 
and journalist. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; and 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to published material 
about the individual in professional or major media and judging the work of others. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that her evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other 
claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's determination regarding the Petitioner's 
published material about the individual in professional or major media and her participation as a judge. 
For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied the 
other claimed criterion. 
A. Evidentiary Criterion 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) . 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
2 
organization. Amin v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022) (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
at 134. The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
In her initial submission, the Petitioner submitted evidence of her: (1) participation in peer-reviewed 
conferences, together with copies of academic papers presented; and (2) academic and business speaking 
engagements, comprised of invited lectures, keynote address and guest lectures in seminars. 
In a request for evidence, the Director acknowledged the evidence submitted by the Petitioner but noted 
that evidence did not establish original contribution of major si nificance. In res onse to the Director's 
request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted a letter from of 
Journalism Innovation and Director of the 
_________ of Journalism, the Ci Professor stated in 
his letter he met the Petitioner when she contacted him while researching for her book and was 
"immensely impressed with her grasp of her subject, the thoroughness of her research, and the insight in 
her conclusion, which confirmed a shift in media coverage in technology -from practically utopian to 
nearly dystopian -that I had merely sensed." He also noted that he recommended her book often, 
convinced his podcast co-hosts to have her on as a guest for an entire episode, and recommended her to 
other media outlets for her reporting and commentary. He said that she will bring "invaluable evidence 
and perspective to policymakers in government and journalists in media." He also stated, "without 
equivocation that she is unique in the field and brings critically important contributions to it." 
The Petitioner also submitted an article that outlined the statement Professor made to the Senate 
Judiciary Subcommittee on __________________ whereby he urged the 
committee to read the Petitioner's book. The Petitioner claims that a testimonial and Senate statement by 
a world-renowned thought leader on the future of the news business who met the Petitioner in the course 
of her research is objective evidence that this criterion is satisfied. 
The Petitioner also submitted a letter from I I Director, USC Center for Public Relations, 
for Communication and Journalism, confirming that the Petitioner began her research 
fellowship at the University of I in 2017. He stated that the Petitioner's "tech 
background and understanding of cutting-edge innovation proved tremendously beneficial." He also 
stated that she made a significant contribution with her concept of tech crisis communication and her 
"analytical skills and findings add valuable data to one of the most debated issues in the U.S. and abroad." 
The Petitioner contends her work has considerable influence on the field of tech journalism and is 
"reflected by the measurable increase in the level of discourse arising from her contributions." She said 
she is a prolific writer and sought-after speaker and commentator in a large range of tech-journalism fora, 
and she has independent and creative thought. The Petitioner reiterates her participation in peer-reviewed 
3 
conferences, invited lectures and conference and guest lectures at seminars and academic colloquia in the 
field of tech journalism, and invitations to review academic papers. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility for this criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner contends the Director erred when he stated that Professor I managed, employed, 
instructed, worked with or collaborated with the Petitioner. However, the letter from Professo 
stated that the Petitioner first contacted him in the course of her research, which culminated in her 
book and therefore it could be possible that the Petitioner and Professor collaborated in the 
book's writing. The Petitioner did not provide more information of her working relationship with 
Professor! I We will review the letter and discuss it below. 
The Petitioner contends that she submitted two testimonial letters that describe her original 
contributions to the field of tech journalism. The letters, however, do not contain detailed, specific 
information explaining how the Petitioner's leadership resulted in original contributions of 
major significance in the field; instead, the letters make broad statements. For instance, Professor 
stated that he was "immensely impressed with her grasp of her subject, the thoroughness of her 
research, and the insight in her conclusion," and she will bring "invaluable evidence and perspective 
to policymakers in government and journalists in media." These are vague and general statements and 
do not provide a true understanding of an ori inal contribution of major significance. In addition, 
while it is commendable that Professor recommended the Petitioner's book to the Senate 
Judiciary Subcommittee o ___________________ this does not provide 
evidence that her book presents an original contribution of major significance. Books can be 
recommended for many reasons such as ease for understanding a complex topic or for educational 
purposes but not necessarily proof of an original contribution of major significance. Furthermore, the 
testimonial froml I is also general and does not provide enough information to corroborate 
the general statements. For example, he states that the Petitioner made a significant contribution to 
my field with her concept of tech crisis communication but does not go into detail of how he came to 
that determination. 
The Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the unusual influence 
or high impact her leadership has had on the overall field. Letters that specifically articulate how a 
petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add 
value. 1 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and 
are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 2 
Moreover, United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that she has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
In addition, the record contains evidence the Petitioner spoke at several peer-reviewed conferences and 
served as a panelist at conventions and seminars. However, the Petitioner did not show how her 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
2 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff din part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
4 
speaking and panelist engagements resulted in contributions of major significance in the field. She 
did not demonstrate, for example, that her participation or contribution to the events influenced the 
field in a significant, major manner. Publications and presentations are not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. USCIS, 580 
F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. While the Petitioner asserts that the 
significance of her contribution is reflected by their measurable increase to the level of discourse in 
the field, the record does not evidence ofreporting of her conferences and seminars. 
For the reasons stated above, the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
B. Reserved Issues 
Based on the foregoing discussion, we agree with the Director's determination that the Petitioner has 
not met at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, as required. Since the 
identified basis for denial is dis positive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and hereby 
reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether he seeks "to enter the United States to 
continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" and whether his entry "will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States," under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii)-(iii) of the Act. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 3 
Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for 
individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. 
Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes 
do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N .D. Ill. 2002) ( finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient 
evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24833125 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a television and motion picture producer who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
After deciding the Petitioner did not establish he had a major, internationally recognized award, nor 
did he demonstrate he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria, the Texas Service Center Director 
denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (petition) . The matter is now before us 
on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de nova. 
Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, we will 
dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner did not satisfy any of the claimed criteria. 
Specifically, his claims and evidence were not adequate relating to the criteria associated with prizes 
or awards, published material, judging, display of the Petitioner's work, or performing in a leading or 
critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains they meet all five of the claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude he has not satisfied at least three regulatory 
criteria meaning it is unnecessary that we perform a final merits determination on his case. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director discussed the material he submitted and noted that one article appeared in several publications 
reflecting the material had a different author in each publication. The Director then questioned 
whether the Petitioner established who actually authored the article and surmised that it was 
self-promoting material that is generally not considered to be published material about a foreign 
national. The determination that self-promoting material is generally not considered to qualify under 
this criterion is supported by agency policy. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (discussing marketing materials). The Director also noted two 
separate articles in which the evidence did not reflect the author's name, which falls short of meeting 
this criterion's requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner first addresses the evidence determined to be self-promoting material. Here, 
the Petitioner notes while these may be marketing materials, that does not disqualify them as sufficient 
evidence under this criterion. The Petitioner does not address USCIS policy indicating that this type 
of documentation will generally be insufficient. As a result, he has not met his burden under this 
criterion. 
2 
To address the Director's concerns about who actually authored any of the submitted articles, the 
Petitioner explains that the author of each article are the editors of the individual publications who 
decide whether to publish these promotional materials. First, the regulation requires qualifying 
evidence to include the author, and the Petitioner has not offered documentation that satisfies that 
requirement. The regulations have the force and effect oflaw and are binding on all USCIS employees, 
and we cannot simply ignore those requirements. MatterofL-, 20 I&N Dec. 553,556 (BIA 1992) (citing 
to Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U.S. 135, 153 ( 1945). So, setting aside the regulatory requirement that 
evidence include the author is not permissible. 
Second, the Petitioner's explanation does not adequately address one of the Director's concerns, that 
the Petitioner presented evidence containing inconsistencies. The Petitioner must resolve inconsistent 
information in the record. Such a correction should be demonstrated through the submission of 
relevant, independent, and objective evidence that reveals which information is the truth. See Matter 
of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). For this reason alone, the Petitioner's arguments on 
appeal will not prevail as the author of the material is not only required by the regulation but it is also 
material to eligibility. 
Third, the record lacks adequate support for the Petitioner's contention that all articles any publication 
publishes that lacks an individual author-especially relating to marketing materials-is authored by 
the editorial board. While this could be the case in some instances, for example the editorial board of 
a newspaper publishing an editorial article giving the editors' opinions, even the Petitioner's appeal 
brief admits the material in question is "self-promotional material" and that does not equate to an 
editorial article in a newspaper or periodical. 
When applying for an immigration benefit, filing parties take on additional burdens as prescribed in 
several authorities (statutes, regulations, policy, etc.) that might not be present for the general public 
in other situations. For example, for someone in the general public to show they have been the subject 
of media coverage, they only need to possess proof of the coverage. However, those applying to be 
classified as an alien with extraordinary abilities, they must document that the coverage was about 
them, in a particular type of publication, and they have to show several aspects about the material 
itself. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the Director erred in their adverse determination, nor 
has he satisfied his burden under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work 
of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner only claimed eligibility under this criterion based on his 
performance at a talent festival. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the 
requirements of this criterion and concluded the evidence indicated he judged persons in an unrelated 
field instead of in his or an allied field. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's analysis or 
findings on appeal and instead shifts the focus of his claim to how his work as a television program 
producer qualifies him under this criterion. 
Filing parties should develop the record for their claims before the lower adjudicative body because 
this affords the lower entity to apply its expertise on the matter in the first instance, giving the appellate 
3 
entity some reasoning to review. New assertions advanced for the first time to an administrative 
appellate body are not properly before us. Matter of M-F-O-, 28 I&N Dec. 408, 410 n.4 (BIA 2021) 
(refusing to consider an appellant's humanitarian claims that were presented for the first time on 
appeal). An appellant may not fill in the gaps in their previous arguments by presenting new arguments 
or material for the record that was not presented to the lower entity. Chamu v. US. Att 'y Gen., 23 F .4th 
1325, 1332 (11th Cir. 2022). As the Petitioner did not offer this argument to the Director, the Director 
could not have erred on this issue and his new claims will not factor into our decision here. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the organization 
or the establishment's activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it 
was leading or critical for organizations or establishments as a whole. 
Ultimately, the leading or the critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization that enjoys 
a distinguished reputation, rather than for a subordinate group. See Strategati, LLC v. Sessions, No. 
3:18-CV-01200-H-AGS, 2019 WL 2330181, at *7 (S.D. Cal. May 31, 2019); Noroozi v. Napolitano, 
905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 (S.D.N.Y. 2012). USCIS policy reflects that organizations or establishments 
that enjoy a distinguished reputation are "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. (citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner claimed his role for lthe entity for which he works as a producer. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion because he 
did not show this entity had a distinguished reputation. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that because I I is responsible for interviewing two respected artists in Latin America, this 
"evidences its reputation in the industry." He further posits that because the organization has been the 
subject of media and trade publication articles, this supports the fact that it has a distinguished 
reputation. Finally, he states that the organization's work appearing on television networks should 
lead us to find in his favor relating tol I reputation. 
Simply performing an interview of a respected artist or public figure does not transform an entity into 
one that enjoys a distinguished reputation. As USCIS policy requires, the organization or 
establishment should be marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence, or alternatively being proper 
for an eminent person. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2. And the Petitioner does 
not explain how the Director erred by not finding the media and trade publication articles to 
sufficiently aid his eligibility claims under this criterion. 
We are also not persuaded by the Petitioner's view that a production company whose work appears on 
television networks should be considered distinguished simply through the act of the network's 
agreement to broadcast their content. This view does not take into account that lesser film and 
television production companies have productions that appeared on network television. Simply having 
4 
an organization's content broadcast falls short of demonstrating that company is marked by eminence, 
distinction, or excellence. 
The regulation and agency policy require the production of evidence that preponderantly satisfies the 
attendant requirements. As a result, the Petitioner's burden of proof comprises both the initial burden 
of production, as well as the ultimate burden of persuasion. Matter of Y-B-, 21 I&N Dec. 1136, 1142 
n.3 (BIA 1998). The Petitioner cannot simply assert that an organization enjoys a distinguished 
reputation based on a factor without offering evidence that adequately supports those claims. Again, 
here the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets five criteria, because his arguments fail on 
any of the criteria discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of 
criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claims relating to awards or the 
display of his work. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when 
another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 
576-77 n. l O (BIA 2022) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l O 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24846831 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) Section 203(b )(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . She claims to be in the field 
of "digital media strategy and operations field." This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
meet the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification through presentation of evidence of either 
a one-time achievement or showing that she meets at least three of the alternative evidentiary criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories of 
evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h )(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in 
certain media, and authorship of scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidentiary requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits detennination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In the decision denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner had satisfied two criteria by submitting: evidence of her authorship of scholarly articles in 
the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media; and evidence that she has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished 
reputation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), (viii). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she also 
meets three additional evidentiary criteria, which we will discuss below. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date. and authorofthe material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that she has offered four ieces of materials that satisf this criterion. 
These materials are: 1 published on 
metronews.ru; 2 ublished on vc.ru; 
(3) _____ 
ublished on vc.ruand 4 ____________ _________________ ___,published by 
The Petitioner has also presented documentation relating to the 
publication Metro, vc.ru, and 
The evidence in the record is insufficient to establish that the Petitioner meets this criterion. The first 
material, documents the Petitioner's answers 
2 
to questions about her personal and educational background, as well as her professional experience. 
It does not include an author of the material, as required undertheregulation. On appeal, the Petitioner 
claims that the author is "Metro News Russia,"which she also lists as the name of the publication. She 
has not demonstrated that the name of the publication satisfies the regulatory requirement of including 
the author of the material. 
Additionally, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence showing that metronews.ru qualifies 
as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. While she has offered material 
about Metro, the print version of the publication, she has not provided information on metronews.ru, 
the digital platform where I I appears. Moreover, 
although the evidence the Petitioner has submitted indicates that Metro, the print version, is "the 
largest daily newspaper in Moscow," its "editions are published in 18 countries in over 65 major 
cities," and has a daily readership of 668,000, the record lacks other evidence confinning that Metro's 
circulation and readership level, as compared to other publications, is indicative of the publication's 
status as major media. 
The materials posted on vc.ru also do not satisfy this criterion . 
includes an opening sentence stating that the Petitioner is al 
and works as the ________________ 
1 The material then discusses from a first-oerson oersoective the Petitioner's work and 
how she manages her teams remotely. ____ 
similarly notes in its opening that the Petitioner is al Petitioner is a I and that she I 
I While the Petitioner claims on appeal that another 
person had authored these materials, a review of the materials does not supp ort this contention. Rather, 
a review of the materials reveals that she had written these pieces discussing her work and offering 
advice to other managers. The Petitioner has not established that these self-authored and self­
promotional pieces qualify as published material about her, relating to her work in the field for which 
classification is sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that these materials were ublished in a rofessional 
or major trade publication or other ma· or media. I I received 517 views, 
received 1,974 views. The Petitioner also offers an online printout from vc.ru, claiming that it is "the 
largest platform in RuN et for entrepreneurs and highly qualified specialists of small, medium and large 
companies." According to another on line printout from SimilarWeb, vc.ru is ranked 5,946 globally, 
300 in Russia, and 15 in the "Computers Electronics and Technology, Other Computers Electronics 
and Technology" category in Russia. The evidence, including the number of views each piece 
received, the ranking of vc.ru, and the nature of the publication, is not sufficient to confirm that it 
qualifies as a professional or major trade publication or other major media. 
Finally, the Petitioner has not sufficient! shown that satisfies this criterion. 
According to ___________________ she "participated in a number of 
large-scale studies in the field of media and communications," which led to the publication ofl I 
I I published by The material, as suggested by its title, is about trend forecasting, and it 
includes quotes from the Petitioner discussing findings of the studies. Other than noting her position 
3 
as ________ the material does not include other information about the Petitioner. 
While this material, a report on study findings, might satisfy the authorship criterion under 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(vi), it does not qualify as published material about the Petitioner, relating to her work in 
the field for which classification is sought. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Based on these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted published material about her in professional 
or major trade publications or other major media, relating to her work in the field of digital media 
strategy and operations. The Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5 (h )(3)(iii). 
Evidence of the alien's original sdent[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
On a eal the Petitioner alle es that she satisfies this criterion based on the work she erformed for 
She claims that she has offered "testimonial letters from seven 
experts in the field, all of which corroborated that she is responsible for original business-related 
contributions and that her contributions are of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, 
the Petitioner must establish that not only has she made original contributions, but also that those 
contributions have been of major significance in the digital media strategy and operations field. For 
example, a petitioner may submit evidence confirming that her contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field,have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance. In this case, the record does not support the Petitioner's 
contention that she has met this criterion. 
The reference letters as well as other evidence in the record indicate that the Petitioner is a capable 
individual and a valued member of her former and current employers' staff, but they do not sufficiently 
establish that her accomplishments constitute original contributions of major significance in the field 
of digital media strategy and operations. The Petitioner has offered letters from her current and former 
employers and coworkers. In an August 2022 letter, the chief executive officer of I 
to whom the Petitioner reports while working in her position as chief of staff, lists the Petitioner's 
duties and responsibilities in the company, and notes that the company "relies on [her] expertise" for 
its business operation and expansion. In a March 2021 letter, a "Partner, Strategy & 0 erations 
Consulting at I loffice," lists the Petitioner's revious work fo and her 
accomplishments for its clients includin 
________________ _____ In a February 2021 letter, a "Senior 
Manager Advisory, Strategy & Operations at ______ __,office," discusses the Petitioner's 
work at and the services she provided its clients. Similarly, in a March 2021 letter, a "self­
employed Media/Entertainment/Tech Business Development and Strategy Consultant," who worked 
with the Petitioner at !describes the Petitioner's work for I clients. These letters, however, 
do not specify what the Petitioner has accomplished that is original, such that she is one of the first 
people to have completed the task, and they do not establish that her work has risen to a level of major 
significance in the field, such that her strategies or methods have been widely implemented throughout 
the field. 
The record includes otherref erence letters. In a November2021 letter, the chairperson of 
(a mobile gaming development studio and publisher) states that the Petitioner "has established herself 
4 
as an individual of extraordinary ability in the ... field based on her employment in leading and critical 
capacities with I I The individual claims that the 
Petitioner "has executed ori inal di ital media strate ies erational efficiencies for 
In a February 2021 letter, the chief executive officer of ____ (a business that "transforms 
any business into a fully automated digital brand") alle es that the Petitioner "introduced novel di ital 
media strate · es and o erational efficiencies for 
In a February 2021 letter, a former 
chief executive officer for confirms the value of the Petitioner's work for the 
company, claiming her work "is original and significant to the digital media strategy and operations 
[field] because it represents an entirely new digital ecosystem for Russian media assets." The letter 
then explains that the Petitioner's work "put [the company] in a position to cover the entire media 
chain -from strategy to content creation to distribution"; that her strategy "allow[ ed the company] to 
track the customer journey and communicate with the customer every step in the media chain"; and 
that she suggested "add[ing] to [the company's] media ecosystem by adopting an online streaming 
service" with a "programing recommendation system." Some of the reference letters, including letters 
from the chair erson of land the chief executive officer of I discuss her 
work with notin that she "oen ed a new office in Pakistan and introduce[ed the] 
company's __________ Other letters, including the letters from 
individuals who worked at rovide that the Petitioner helped llauncha video-on-demand 
service, and she introduced to a dynamic pricing model to attract moviegoers. 
These letters, although detail the Petitioner's projects and explain their value to various businesses, do 
not demonstrate the purported originality of her work, or show that her strategies and methods have 
significantly impacted the field as a whole. For example, the letters do not explain how opening anew 
international office, introducing a customer service initiative, launching a video-on-demand service, 
or a dynamic pricing model is original. The letters also do not sufficiently establish that her projects 
impacted the field in a significant way, such that others in the field have widely implemented her 
strategies and methods. As noted in the Director's decision, the Petitioner must show that her 
contributions are original and have "reach[ed] beyond [her] employer and its customers/clients." 
See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this 
criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as a whole). 
In short, the Petitioner has not shown, through the reference letters or other evidence in the record, 
that her work is original or its impact has reached a level of major significance in the field of digital 
media strategy and operations. The opinions of the references are not without weight and have been 
reviewed and considered. For the reasons we have discussed above, however, the letters and other 
evidence in the record fail to demonstrate that the Petitioner's work constitutes contributions of "major 
significance" in the field. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may, in its discretion, 
use advisory opinions and statements submitted as expert testimony. See Matter of Caron Int 'l, 19 
I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r. 1988). USCIS is ultimately responsible for making the final 
determination regarding an individual's eligibility for the benefit sought. Id. The submission of 
reference letters supporting the petition is not presumptive evidence of eligibility; USCIS may, as we 
have in this case, evaluate the contents of those letters as to whether they support the individual's 
eligibility. See id. at 795-96. Thus, the contents of the references' statements are important 
considerations. The record, including the reference letters, does not sufficiently establish that the 
5 
Petitioner's work is original or has been unusually influential, has substantially impacted the field, or 
has otherwise risen to the level of contributions of major significance. As such, she has not 
demonstrated that she meets this criterion. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other signfficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she has satisfied this criterion. She points to documentation 
relating to earnings of operations research analysts to support her position that she has commanded a 
high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. The 
record includes her 2021 Wage and Tax Statements (Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form W-2), 
indicating that she received approximately$ 72,211 in wages froml land approximately 
$11,440 in wages froml I Page 4 of her petition lists her job title as "Chief of Staff," 
and notes that she receives $150,000 a year in wages. In an April 2022 letter, states 
that the Petitioner's annual base salary would be increased from $150,000 to $200,000 beginning in 
May 2022, and that the company awarded her a $20,000 bonus. In a June 2022 letter.I 
provides that"[ s ]ubject to approval by the Company's Board of Directors," it was offering her 
stock options. In her response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner submitted an 
amended page 4 of the petition, claiming that her title remains "Chief of Staff," but that her salary has 
been increased to $200,000 per year. The Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence showing that 
she meets this criterion. 
As the Director noted in the decision, under 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b ), a petitioner "must establish that he 
or she is eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit request and must continue to 
be eligible through adjudication." As such, the Petitioner must show that at the time she filed the 
petition, in April 2022, she was eligible for the classification and satisfied the criterion. Therefore, 
she cannot rely on evidence showing that she received a raise in May 2022 or documents relating to 
her higher level of compensation to satisfy this criterion. 
Additionally, the Petitioner has offered comparative evidence on individuals who are "operations 
research analysts," while the petition indicates that her title is "chief of staff." The Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that these two positions are sufficiently similar, such that she can rely on earning 
evidence concerning "operations research analysts" to show that she, as a chief of staff, has 
commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in 
the field. According to an April 2022 letter from her employer, as a chief of staff, the Petitioner is 
responsible for the company's "digital media strategies, growth strategies, tech no logy adoptions, sales, 
operations and management processes" and she is "vested with ultimate authority to direct and 
coordinate change management initiatives, budget and financial planning, and project management in 
the areas of digital media strategies, business strategies and analytics, and corporate communications." 
The letter further notes that the Petitioner "is responsible for managing the organization's expansion 
budget, annual operating plan, and customer engagement initiatives" and that she "possesses broad 
authority to evaluate the organization's performance to determine areas of potential cost reduction, 
process improvement and policy changes." The letter illustrates that the Petitioner has a certain level 
of management responsibility and authority to direct the operation of the business. She, however, has 
not demonstrated that operations research analysts also have these duties. As such, she has not shown 
that information about operations research analysts' earning is appropriate comparative evidence. 
6 
Moreover, according to materials the Petitioner has presented from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as 
well as careeronestop.org, the highest 10 percent of operations research analysts earn more than 
$160,850 a year. The Petitioner, as a chief of staff, earned $150,000 a year in salary when she filed 
the petition. Even if we were to accept that her position and the position of an operations research 
analyst are sufficiently similar for comparative purposes, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that her 
earning is high enough to satisfy the criterion. 
Based on these reasons, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that she has commanded a high 
salary or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. She has 
not met the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 
1119-20. Nevertheless, we note that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it 
does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required 
to be classified as an individual of extraordinary ability in the field of digital media strategy and 
operations. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she contributed to the success of her former and current employers and to the 
success of their clients. But the Petitioner has not shown that her accomplishments rise to the required 
level of sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Section 203(6 )(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility to be classified as an 
individual of extraordinary ability in the field of digital media strategy and operations. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25692485 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a professor at a foreign research university who seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 
375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N 
Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has a lengthy career in the bioengineering and nanotechnology field. He received his 
Ph.D. in industrial chemistry and became a professor at a research university approximately a decade 
later, a position he continues to hold. 
A Translation Certifications 
We begin noting a deficiency in some evidence in the record relating to documents that originate in a 
foreign language. "Petitioners and applicants for immigration benefits are required by regulation to 
provide certified English translations of any foreign language documents they submit." Matter of 
Nevarez, 15 I&N Dec. 550,551 (BIA 1976) (citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b), now promulgated at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3)) which states "[aa ]ny document containing foreign language submitted to U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration Services (USCTS) shall be accompanied by a full English language translation which 
the translator has certified as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English." 
The language utilized within the regulation implicitly precludes a single certification that validates several 
translated forms of evidence unless the certification specifically lists the translated documents. Without 
a single translator's certification for each foreign language form of evidence, or a translator's certification 
specifically listing the documents it is validating, the certification cannot be regarded to be certifying any 
specific form of evidence. The final determination of whether evidence meets the plain language 
requirements of a regulation lies with USCTS. See Matter of Caron International, 19 T&N Dec. 791, 795 
(Comm'r 1988) (finding the appropriate entity to determine eligibility is USCIS). 
Reviewing the certifying documents relating to the Petitioner's evidence in his response to the Director's 
request for evidence, those instruments appear to be a single blanket certification document. As noted 
above, the regulation does not contain any provision that allows for such a blanket translation 
certificate. The submission of a single translation certification that does not identify the document or 
documents it purportedly accompanies, does not meet the requirements of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.2(b)(3). Such a deficiency in the certification results in the evidence accompanied by these 
translations to possess diminished value and are insufficient to demonstrate the validity of the foreign 
language materials. 
2 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided the Petitioner satisfied one criterion relating to authorship of scholarly articles, 
but he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or awards, original contributions, or leading 
or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that they meet the evidentiary criteria relating to 
awards and contributions of major significance. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude he has satisfied the scholarly articles regulation, but he has not met at least three total criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner initially claimed several prizes or awards, but after the Director did not find in his favor 
on this issue, he has pared back his claims to two awards within the appeal. Both the awards the 
Petitioner claims on appeal are primarily accompanied by evidence originating in a foreign language 
and their translations have a deficient certification that is not in accord with the regulation. Without 
properly certified translations, it would serve no purpose for us to evaluate the majority of the evidence 
to determine whether the Petitioner would otherwise satisfy this criterion's requirements. 
We close this discussion noting the identified 2019 innovation award may be considered as a 
noteworthy achievement, were it to name the Petitioner. But it does not. The award was issued for a 
particular designed device, and it was awarded to the Petitioner's university where he serves as a 
professor. Like an employer-received award where a candidate participated as part of a group project 
that earned the accolades, an award bestowed upon a team generally does not meet the plain language 
requirements of this criterion that requires "the alien's receipt" of prizes or awards. See generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
While exceptions to this may exist, the Petitioner does not develop his position here of why he should 
be considered to be this accolade's recipient. Additionally, the award was issued for a specific device 
design -identified as a self-powered emergency signal aqua suit-and how that innovation would be 
used in real-world situations. While the Petitioner claims a technology that is embedded within this 
award-winning device is attributable to him, he did not demonstrate the award was issued for that 
embedded technology as opposed to the device as it was presented at the competition and how the 
overall device would be used in the real world. 
3 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed eligibility under this criterion but did not continue to assert those 
claims when he responded to the Director's request for evidence. In their decision, the Director 
discussed the evidence submitted for this criterion and found that the Petitioner did not establish his 
eligibility. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's findings for this criterion or offer 
additional arguments. For these reasons, the Petitioner has abandoned his eligibility claims under this 
criterion. Matter of Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022) (finding arguments not 
raised on appeal are abandoned). Accordingly, the Petitioner has not submitted qualifying evidence 
under this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets three criteria within the appeal, because his 
arguments fail on any single criterion discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the 
required number of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed 
elements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 
U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when another independent 
issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 
2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 14, 2024 In Re: 29853630 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dancer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner has a level of expertise indicating that she is one of the small percentage 
who have risen to the very top of her field of endeavor. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christa 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one­
time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
Because the Petitioner did not indicate or establish that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she initially sought to demonstrate her eligibility by submitting evidence related to 
the following regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x): 
• (i), Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the Petitioner in major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display of the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions, 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for organizations with distinguished reputations; and 
• (ix), Commanded significantly high remuneration in comparison with others in the field. 
The Director's notice ofintent to deny (NOID) concluded, without explanation, that the Petitioner met 
the criteria regarding published material, participation as a judge, and display at artistic exhibitions, 
but did not meet the other four requested criteria. Because the Petitioner had satisfied the required 
three initial criteria, the Director conducted a final merits determination which only discussed the 
evidence for those three criteria, and then requested further documentation establishing the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the four criteria that were denied, as well as her overall record of sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
The Petitioner provided a timely response to the NOID, and the Director denied the pet1t10n, 
concluding without any explanation that the Petitioner had not met any additional criteria and 
repeating the NOID's final merits analysis. 
Remanding a matter is appropriate when the Director does not fully explain the reasons for the denial 
so that the affected party has a fair oppmiunity to contest the decision and we have an opportunity to 
conduct a meaningful appellate review. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i) (providing that the director's 
decision must explain the specific reasons for denial); cf Matter of M-P-, 20 I&N Dec. 786 (BIA 
1994) (finding that the reasons for denying a motion must be clear to allow the affected paiiy a 
meaningful opportunity to challenge the determination on appeal). 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that no reason was given for why she did not meet the criteria 
regarding lesser nationally or internationally recognized awards, membership in associations, leading 
or critical roles, or her remuneration, and that the Director's final merits analysis did not consider the 
2 
totality of the record. Because the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements with evidence 
corresponding to three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) and has proceeded to the final 
merits determination, the four unmet criteria are not material to the outcome of this case. However, a 
final merits determination under Kazarian must consider the totality of the evidence, not only the 
evidence corresponding to criteria that have been satisfied. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20; see 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. The record here 
includes letters of support, awards, salary documents, and various other documentation the Director 
did not address in the NOID 1 or denial notice. 
We further note that the Director's denial did not evaluate the contents of the attorney letter provided 
in response to the NOID. While the Director correctly noted that attorney statements are not 
considered evidence in and of themselves,2 such statements do make legal arguments regarding the 
evidence, which the Director must address in any denial notice in order to specifically explain the 
reasons for that denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). 
Because the Director did not analyze much ofthe Petitioner's evidence or arguments, the denial notice 
is insufficient to allow her a fair opportunity to challenge the decision or for us to conduct a meaningful 
appellate review. We will therefore remand this matter to the Director to consider again whether the 
overall record demonstrates that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and that 
she is one of that small percentage that has risen to the very top of her field. 
On remand, the Director shall weigh and review all ofthe evidence presented, including the materials 
submitted on appeal. The Director may request any additional evidence considered relevant to the 
new determination and any other issues. We express no opinion regarding the ultimate resolution of 
this case on remand. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(8)(iv) (stating that a NOID must, among other things, state "bases for the proposed denial sufficient 
to give the applicant or petitioner adequate notice and sufficient infmmation to respond"); see generally 1 USCIS Policy 
Manual, supra, at E.6(F)(4) (stating that NOIDs should "[i]dentify the reasons for the intended denial, including the 
eligibility requirement(s) that has not been established, and why the evidence submitted is insufficient"). 
2 See, e.g., Matter ofS-M-, 22 I&N Dec. 49, 51 (BIA 1988) ("statements in a brief, motion, or Notice of Appeal are not 
evidence and thus are not entitled to any evidentiary weight"). 
3 MATTER OF H-O-H-G- INC Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 15, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECfSION 
PETITION: FORM I-140A, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a gymnastics school, seeks to 'classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) iection 
203(b)(l )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l )(A). This first preference classification .makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary had satisfied only one of the 
ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that the Beneficiary meets at least three of the 
ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of . 
extraordinary ability, and 
· (iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. · · 
.
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does ·not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least thfee of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ ·204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. ·§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final. merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC/S, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part r~view-where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
· Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence , to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&NDec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary previously competed as a gymnast until 2015. In 2015, he also served as the 
assistant coach for Since then, he has served as a 
coach for the Petitioner as well as a volunteer coach for the men's 
gymnastics team.2 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that 
the Beneficiary met only one of the initial evidentiary criteria: 
On appeal, the Petitioner mainfains that the Beneficiary satisfies five of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). _ 
\ 
1 The record also refers to this team as the 
2 The record demonstrates that_the Beneficiary was granted 0-1 status and issued a visa in November 2016. 
2 
.
Matter of H-O~H-G- Inc 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the alien ·s receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director acknowledged the Beneficiary's receipt of multiple awards at gymnastics competitions, 
but found that the record did not demonstrate that the awards are nationally ,or internationally 
recognized. Specifically, he stated that, as these awards were "limited to members of that 
association and participants of that competition ... such evidence has no probative value for meetings 
this criterion." · 
As discussed by the Director, the record contains evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary 
received 1st place as a member of the team representing Japan at the 201.0 , 3rd place all-
around at the in 2012, 2nd place, horizontal bar, at the 2013 
, 3rd place overall at the 2013 and 1st place, 
horizontal · bar, at the 2014 Further, although not mentioned by the 
Director, the record also shows that, among other awards, the Beneficiary was a member of the 
Japanese team receiving 2nd place at the in 2010. We 
find the record sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has won awards that are nationallf or 
internationally recognized for excellence in gymnastics. Accordingly, we disagree with the• 
Director's decision and find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field.for which classffication is 
sought, ·which require outstanding achievements of their members. as judged by recognized 
national 9r international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
In order to meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that the Beneficiary's membership in an 
association is based on being judged by recognized national or international experts as having 
outstanding achievements in the field for which the classification is sought.3 The Director stated that 
the Petitioner had provided evidence of the Beneficiary's membership on teams and in the 
However, he found that the record lacked 
evidence establishing that membership in these associations required outstanding achievements of 
their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On appeal, the. Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's membership on the 
and the meet the regulatory requirement for this criterion. The record indicates that the 
Beneficiary participated in teams representing Japan at various events and it includes a 2012 
certificate from the _____________ recognizing him as a national athlete. 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 . l ,' Evalualiun (!/ Evidence S11b111i11ed with Ceriain Form 1-140 
Petilions ; Revisions 10 !he Adjudica/or·s Field Manual (AFM) Chap/er 22.2, AFM Update ADI /-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www,uscis.gov/policymanual /HTML/PolicyManual .html. 
3 
.
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
However, the Petitioner has not provided supporting documentation regarding the 
its membership selection process and requirements, or the Beneficiary's membership on this 
team. We noJe, for instance, that the submitted support letters, including letters from the Chairman · 
and the Secretary General of the reference his membership 
on "the Japanese team;' that won second prize in Netherlands in 20 l 0, but they do not 
identify this team or discuss its membership process or requirements. · The Petitioner argues that the 
Director "ignored the selectivity of both the which is limited to the top 16 
gymnasts in Japan, and the which is limited to eleven gymnasts. " (Emphasis in 
original). However , the record lacks corroborative evidence demonstrating these limitations , or 
other materials demonstrating the process by which ~he Beneficiary was selected to be a member of 
these teams. 
In its appeal brief, the Petitioner cites to In re Petitioner [ldent(fj;in g Information Redacted by 
Agency}, No. EAC-00-139-52808 , 2003 WL 23194168 (DHS) (AAO Sept. 29, 2003), a non­
precedent Administrative Appeals Office decision finding in which we found that membership on an 
team met the association criterion "because such membership is the result of multi-level 
national competition , supervised by national experts." The Petitioner has not sufficiently 
documented the membership processes for the Japanese teams on which he competed or the 
to demonstrate their similarity to the team discussed in the cited case. Furthermore , this 
decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to 
the specific facts of the individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the 
record of proceedings , the issues considered , and applicable law and policy. 
The Petitioner further argues that in another non-precedent decision, Matter ofC-K-, ID.#1223184 
(AAO Apr. 27, 2018), we found that "the petitioner's qualification for his c·ountry's national water 
ski team satisfied the criterion for membership. " In that decision, we noted that "the Petitioner · 
provided additional evidence of the requirements to be selected for [his co.untry's] national water ski 
team." We found "[t]he Petitioner [had] submitted sufficient evidence demonstrating that [his 
country's] national water ski team requires outstanding achievements by its members as a 
prerequisite for joining the team." In the instant case, the Petitioner submits a certificate , referenced 
above, showing that the Beneficiary was recognized as a riational athlete in 2012, as well as 
certificates from the showing him eligible for training in 2012 
and 2007. However , the Petitioner has not submitted evidence sufficient to demonstrate the 
requirements for these certifications included outstanding ~chievements, as was done in the 
referenced decision. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the Director "inexplicable ignored" Beneficiary's selection 
as a __ by the in 2010. However , the Petitioner does not provide 
supporting evidence demonstrating that outstanding achievements , as judged by recognized national 
or international experts, are required for selection as a . For the reasons 
discussed above, . the · Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiar y meets the regulatory 
requirement for this criterion. 
4 
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
Published material about. the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title. date. and author of the material. and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R: 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient eviden~e to satisfy this 
criterion. We disagree and withdraw the Director's findings on this criterion. In the appellate brief, 
the Petitjoner lists .14 ·articles which it asserts establish that the Beneficiary's eligibility for this 
criterion. The record, however, does not include sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the 
Petitioner provided published material about the Beneficiary in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, which included the title, date, and author.4 Eight of these 14 
articles are in the Japanese language with uncertified English translations. Any document in a 
foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation.· 8 C.F.R. § 
103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent .to translate from the foreign language into English .. Id. 
Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified English language translation of these 
documents, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material is accurate and thus 
supports the Petitioner's claims. In addition, we note that the Petitioner indicates these articles were 
published in Mainichi Shim bun, and Osaka Nichinichi Shim bun, but that the record lacks 
documentation corroborating its assertions that these publications are major media. 
I 
Five of the remaining six English language articles provide coverage of gymnastics competitions 
where the Petitioner is only briefly mentioned or listed as a competitor. Articles that are not about a 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See. e.g .. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin. 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at ; 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding· that articles regarding a show are 
not about the actor. The sixth article, published in International Gymnast, is about the Beneficiary 
and discusses an injury he sustained during training, however the record lacks sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate the major status of this publication. In support of its assertion that International 
Gymnast qualifies as major media, the Petitioner quotes the publication's press kit stating that the 
publication "is the most widely read gymnastics magazine ii1 the world and is received in more than 
50 countries." The Petitioner also states that "pass-along readership is estimated 40,000-50,000, 
with digital circulation of 10,000 hits daily." However, USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional 
material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos. No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C. D. CA July 6, 2007) aff'd 
2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) ( concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine 
as to the magazine's status is not reliable evidence of major media). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not met its burden in demonstrating that the 
Beneficiary meets the requiremen~s of this criterion. We will withdraw the Director's finding on this 
criterion. · 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, an. 
5 I . 
.
Malter of H-O-H-G- Inc 
Evidence · of the alien's original scientific , scholarly, artistic. athletic_. · or business-relat ed 
co_ntributions of major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner ma'.y show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiar y's "unique ability to execute a 
sequence of difficult release moves on the horizontal bar" qualifies him for this criterion. The 
Petitioner notes that the record includes a letter written by an champio1:1, 
stating that the Beneficiary "is the first and only gymnast who 
· on high bar."5 also notes that the Beneficiary's ability is "truly 
astounding and it is a big feat in men's gymnastics ." Letters from the Chairman and from the 
Secretary General of the respectively , also state that the 
Beneficiary "is the only person in the world who can perform high difficulty combination series .... "6 
These letters do not demonstrate how the Beneficiar y's performance of this skill has been a 
contribution of major significance to the field. Letters that sp~cifically articulate how the alien's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 
Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probati~e evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 7 
The Petitioner further asserts that the Beneficiary meets this criterion because of his "general 
recognition as a world-renowned gymnast and coach." The record contains several letters attesting 
to his status in the field.8 For example, a letter from says, "[The Beneficiar y] was 
regarded as one of the best gymnasts in the world in recent years, competing in numerous 
for However , these letters do not demonstrate how this general 
recognition constitutes a major original ·contribution to the field of gymnastics. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that• the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has pe1:formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishment s that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) . 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiar y qualifies for this criterion based on his role in leading 
the Japanese teams to second place finishes at the 2012 and the 20 IO 
It fmiher argues that the Beneficiary played "a critical and leading 
5 We note that the Petitioner also provided photographs of the Beneficiary performing this skill. 
6· Elsewhere in the record, writes that he is now "able to perform [the Beneficiar y]'s high bar release 
combination skills." 
7 USClS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
8 Although we discuss only one letter, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
.
) Matter of H-0-H-G- Inc 
role in the elite and that he "has continued to play a critical and leading role since his 
retireme~t from competition in 2015." As it relates to a leading role, the evidence inust establish that 
a petitioner is or was a. leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a 
role is or was, in fact, leading.9 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a 
petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.10 
The Petitioner asserts that the' Beneficiary's performance at the 2010 
contributed significantly 10· the Japanese team's silver medal there, noting that he 
"earned the second-highest score for · and the highest of 
any gymnast on any team on the " The record contains evidence corroborating this 
assertion. · This evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary's athletic performance 
played a critical role in the team's success at ~he 2010 
Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner has established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g.. Q Data Consulting. Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of.Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F: Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office ~djudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between a court of appeals and.a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are 
rtot bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination -referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support-a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
91d: at 10. 
10 Id. 
7 
Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc I 
. 
the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary qualifies for classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of H-O-H-G- Inc, ID# 2012666 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019) 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF O-S-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
·· Administrative Appeals Office 
DA TE: FEB. 15, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WOR~ER 
The Petitioner, an artisan, photographer and fashion designer, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )( 1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ·ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achieveIJ1ents have _been recognized in their field thro~gh extensi~e documentation. · 
The Director of the Nebraska. Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
· establish, as required, that the Petitioner has a one-time achievement 1(a major, internationally 
· recognized award) or met at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner appealed 
the matter to_ us, and we dismissed her appeal. 
· On ·motion, the Petitioner submits additional evidence _and asserts that she meets two criteria in 
addition to the two criteria we found that she meets in-our previous decision .. 
Upon review, we will deny the mption. 
I. LAW. 
A motion to reopen is based bn documentary evidence of new facts. The requirements of a motion 
to reopen are located at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
II. ANALYSIS 
In her decision, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of the requisite three ·criteria, 
regarding display of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. On appeal, we determined that 
she also met the criterion relating to playing a leading or critical role for an organization with a 
distinguished· reputation, but that ·she fell short of establishing several others. The Petitioner now 
submits a motion to reopen with new eviaence, and claims to meet the criteria for published material 
·about her in.professional or major trade publications or otlier major media, and for a high salary or 
other significaQtly 1.high remuneration. As the evidence meets the requirements for a-motion to 
reopen, we will analyze it under the appropriate criteria below. 
.
Matter of O-S-
A. Published Material About the Alien in Professional or Major Trade Publications or Other Major 
Media 
With her motion, the Petitioner submits a copy of an article which appeared in the 2018 
edition of Vogue UA, the Ukrainian edition of the popular fashion magazine. The one-page article is 
accompanied by pictures of the Petitioner and her work; and discusses a display of her w_ork in 
in December 2017. However , we note that both the display of her work and publication of 
the article occurred well after this petition was filed on August 7, 2017. Eligibility for an 
immigration benefit must be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l ), (12); Matter 
of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved 'at a future 
date after the petitioner becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 l&N Dec. 
169,175 (Comm'r 1998). That decision, citing Matter <?fBardouille. 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981), 
further provides that USCIS cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing 
of a petition." Id. at 176. Accordingly , this evidence does not establish the Petitioner's qualification 
under this criterion. 
The Petitioner also resubmits two articles which were published in the magazine domus design in 
2006 and 2007. Both articles feature descriptions and photographs of the interior of 
apartments, including pictures that the Petitioner asserts are her creations. She is credited as one of 
two designers in the 2006 article, and for "photographs in the interior" in the 2007 
article. The text of the 2006 article repeats the mention of the Petitioner as a designer of the 
apartment, but the text of the . 2007 article is not translated from Ukrainian to English. The 
2006 article is not about the Petitioner , but is a description of the apartment, and the subject 
of the 2007 article cannot be discerned without translations. In addition, the Petitioner submits 
new evidence relating to the publication in support of her assertion that it should be considered as 
major media. A "Website Analysis Overview Report" on the domusweb.it website provides figures 
on the number of visitors, but it is not apparent that these figures relate to the Ukrainian edition of 
the magazine in which the submitted articles appear. Also submitted Qn motion is an advertising 
guide to the magazine which indicates that it has a circulation of I 0,000 copies distributed 
throughout Ukraine. However, these claims are not supported by evidence from independent 
sources,· nor has comparative evidence been submitted to establish that the circulation of the 
Ukrainian edition of domus design sufficiently establishes that it is major media .. 
In our previous decision, we determined that while some television broadcasts were about the 
Petitioner and her work as an ·artist, she had not submitted sufficient evidence to demonstrate that 
these broadcasts appeared in major media. On motion, the Petitioner resubmits evidence of a short 
program covering her exhibition in in 2017, as well as new evidence regarding UA TV, 
the government-run satellite television company which aired the program .. A "Website Analysis 
Overview Report" about the company's website indicates that it is ranked number 4,562 in Ukraine, 
. with 284,447 monthly visits, nearly all from visitors within Ukraine. Without further information 
regarding the size of UA TV's viewership or other evidence . of its status as a major media outlet, this 
evidence is insufficient to meet the requirements of this criterion. 
2 
Matter of 0-S-
B. Evidence That the Alien has Commanded a High Salary or Other Significantly High 
Remuneration for Services, in Relation to Others in the Field 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a copy of a 201 7 IRS Form 1099 from a client for whom she 
~ompleted an interior design project, as well as a copy of the design proposal. The Form · 1099 
indicates that she received $9,800 from this client. However, the Petitioner has not .submitted 
evidence of how her remuneration compares to that of other artists in her field·. Therefore, she has 
not established that it is significantly high. 
III. CONCLUSION 
We have reviewed the new evidence submitted by the Petitioner on motion, and find that it does not 
meet the claimed evidentiary criteria or establish her eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is denied: 
Cite as Matter of 0-S-, ID# 2000787 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019) 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-E-S-L-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 15, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a Latin reggae musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability 
in the arts. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must m~et at least three: · · 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief, arguing that he ·meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's eritry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individu.als in "that small percel}tage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation . . 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
at 8 C.F.R. · § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification_'s initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as aw;rds, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not· 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a· petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
materiat' provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is ·among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 l 0) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is cOnsistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The record shows that the Petitioner, whose professional name 1s or 
is a Latin reggae musician who was a 
percussionist for the Venezuelan reggae band 
released the albums 
new band. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria (2010), After 
, and released the album founding member, lead singer, composer and 
from 1 998 unti I it disbanded in 2012.1 
(2002), (2007), and 
disbanded the Petitioner formed a 
(2016). 
As the record does not establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least· three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). · The Director held 'that the Petitioner met only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, published 
material under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), and judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). On appeal, 
the Petitioner maintains that he meets six additional . criteria, awards, membership in associations, 
significant contributions, display, critical or leading role, and commercial success at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (v), (vii), (viii) and (x); respectively, and that he is among the small p~rcentage 
1 There is some inconsistency in the record as to when disbanded. The Petitioner's resume indicates that 
thi.s'event occurred in 20 IO while on appeal the Petitioner asserts it was in 2012. 
2 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
at the very top of the field of endeavor. Here, we find _that the record establishes he meets three 
criteria to warrant a final merits detem1ination .. 
Specifically, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner meets the criteria for published material 
and judging. The record contains several published articles that are about the Petitioner, relating to 
his performances with, and the circulation statistics provided demonstrate that the 
publications qualify as major media, as required under the regulation.2 In addition, the documentary 
evidence indicates that he served as a judge for the 2012 awards and as a 
member of the jury for the 2013 awards. We also find that the Petitioner,has 
satisfied the display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The evidence submitted of the 
Petitioner's performance before audiences _at concerts and other music events fulfills this criterion. 
This demonstrates that the Petitioner meets three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
As the Petitioner has satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence, including the documentation relating to other criteria he has claimed, in the context of the 
final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the record 
demonstrates, by a preponderance of .the evidence, that he has sustained national or international 
acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor; and that his 
achievements· have. been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2)-(3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In 
this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established that he has sustained national or 
international acclaim. 
With respect to awards, within its response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), the 
Petitioner included documentation that he received the 201 l award as Singer with the 
Most Impact of the Year with a Great International Projection.-' He submitted a letter dated 2011 
from _____ president of who provides general 
2 For example, reviews and articles about the Beneficiary and his work with appear to have been 
published in Rolling Stone magazine and in the Venezuelan publication El Naciona/. Although not addressed by the 
Director, we note that the Petitioner submitted translations ol'several other li:neign-language articles that cki not comply 
with the regulation, as they clearly omit sentences or passages from the foreign language document. See 8 C.F.R, § 
103.2(b)(3) . Accordingly , these translations have significantly diminished probative value. Other articles submitted do 
not meet the plain language r'equirements of the published material criterion because they do not include the date and 
author of the material. 
3 The record also contains evidence that he received the 2017 after the date when _the petition was 
filed on October 6, 2016. The Petitioner must establish that all eiigibility requirements for the immigration benefit have 
been satisfied from 'the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. * I 03 .2(b )( 1 ). Furthermore, the 
record does not include sufficient evidence to _demonstrate that this award is recognized at a level _consistent with 
national or international acclaim. · 
3 
.
,/, 
Matter of L-E-S-L-
information about the foundation, and asserts that the award is "the only award that is 
certified in the country," and that it enjoys "the Most Continuous Credibility at a Regional, National, 
and International level." He also indicates that the award is a local event, given in 
based upon "the verdict from the people of according to the results from the polls 
taken in different communicatio~ media, the Mayor's office ... walking polls, and other means 
of information." On appeal, the Petitioner provides an additional letter from dated 
2018, indica~ing that the Petitioner was the only artist in the '" cultural reggae' genre" to receive the 
award for Singer with the Most Impact of the Year with a Great International Projection.4 He further 
explains that the organization does not have established award categories, and "[t]he number of 
awards changes every year depend.ing on how the market develops." While the Petitioner's award 
. shows that he was recognized by the the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence of the national or international recognition of his such as national or 
widespread local coverage of his award in arts, ente11ainment, or general media, shO\ying that the 
award was recognized beyond the presenting organization. Tl1e Petitioner, therefore, has not shown 
that his receipt of the award in 2011 is indicative of the required national or 
international acclaim in the field. 
Regarding the Petitioner's membership in associations, he contends that his membership in the 
demoi1strates his "sustained national acclaim." However, as he acknowledges 
on appeal, the record indicates his membership in this organization began on March 2 7, 2018, after 
the date the petition was filed on October 6, 2016. As stated previously, the Petitioner must establish 
that all eligibility requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the 
filing and continuing through adjudication. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l ). Thus, the Petitioner cannot 
establish that he possessed the required acclaim at the time of filing with membership in an 
organization that began after that date. Nor has the Petitioner sufficiently documented the 
· significance or prestige of his memb~rship to demonstrate that it 
contributes to a finding of sustained national or international .acclaim continuing through 
adjudication. 
For published material, the record contains a favorable review of 2002 debut album 
!hat appears to have been published in a foreign language edition of Rolling 
Stone. An additional article in El Nacional announces that album's release, mentions the 
participation of notable reggae artists and in the recording, and notes 
the band's growing popularity in South America and Jamaica. Other articles"'discuss the success of 
between 2003 and 2010, including the positive response to the band's 
While indicative of recognition during this period, those 
materials do 'not demonstrate that the Petitioner, as an . individual, has enjoyed national or 
international acclaim performing with his ·new .band between 2012 and October 2016, 
when he filed the instant petition. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that although 
disbanded in 2012, he "continued to shine and be recognized as a Latin Reggae Artist' in his own 
4 The materials accompanying letter indicate the organization changed its name in 2016 to 
4 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
right." In support of t_his contention he cites to his performance in concerts between 2013 and 2015 
at "some of most famous venues such as ... and ' and his release of 
the CD . However, the record does not show that the level of 
success the Petitioner has had from 2012 onward has brought him national or international acclaim 
in his field. Therefore, the evidence in the record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
sustained national or international acclaim after his participation in 
With respect to judging, the two certificates submitted pertain to the Petitioner's judging experiences 
for the 2012 awards, and as a member of the jury for the 2013 
A'.s previously discussed, the above-mentioned letter from indicates 
that the award that the Petitioner judged was a local event, given in based 
upon "the verdict from the people of according to the results from the polls taken in different 
communication media, the Mayor's office ... walking polls, and other means of information." 
A press release describes the awards as an annual, two-day Venezuelan music 
festival that awards the "top acts" from that year's festivals, which are monthly, 
regional music festivals "in the main squares of Venezuela." On appeal, the Petitioner provides 
press releases advertising upcoming events in 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2016, 
published on the websites www.theelitechannel.blogspot.com, www.lapatilla.com, and 
www.lamegaestacion.com www.el~nacional.com. Without supporting evidence showing, for 
instance, the level of national or international prestige associated with these competitions, we cannot 
conclude that_ serving as a judge for them is commensurate with sustained "national or international 
acclaim" at the very top of the field. Moreover, we note that the Petitioner has submitted evidence 
of his participation as a judge for only two competitions, in 2012 and 2013 respectively. The statute and 
regulations, however, require "extensive documentation," and for the petitioner to demonstrate that his 
national or international acclaim has been sustained. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A)(i), and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The documentation submitted for 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv), considered as part of the record as a whole, is not extensive or commensurate with 
sustained national or international acclaim. 
On appeal, for the first time, the Petitioner claims that he satisfies the contributions criterion, based 
on letters of recommendation from his former band members and colleagues in the field. First, he 
indicates this evidence demonstrates acclaim as the first ' in 
Venezuela." __ an Argentine reggae musician self-described as the "founder of cultural 
· reggae in all of Latin America," describes the Petitioner as "the founder of m 
Venezuela." of the , calls 
Venezuela's" a reggae musician , indicates that 
while "there were important reggae-bands in Latin America before . . . .. is the first 
Next, the Petitioner asserts the letters demonstrate impact and influence, especially. 
in being.the first reggae band __ , bringing "this hallmark of reggae music to 
Venezuela ."' · a Jamaican-Canadian reggae musician , and a 
Venezuelan r~ggae musician , credit the_ band with contributing to the popularity of reggae music in 
I 
5 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
Venezuela. Letters form a former member of 
claim that the band's ===== "defined the history of reggae in the 
country." ===== -===- .· another former member of asserts 
that the song ' from ___ "was the most played song on the radio 
at the time." In addition, an undated letter from with the Venezuelan radio station 
indicates that the theme composed by [the Petitioner] and 
.. is the Venezuelan reggae song with the most rotation in our radio Circuit." However, the 
Petitioner has not established how the radio play of the song equates to his 
sustained national or international acclaim .. For example, the record does not include sufficient 
evidence to corroborate the statements regarding the past radio play of the song, nor does it 
demonstrate how much current radio play this song receives or to what extent the Petitioner has 
received acclaim for this from 2012 until October 2016: 
Finally, the Petitioner cites to the 2003 atiicle in El Nacional titled 
which indicates that at the time of their debut album, the band had 
. already "achieved considerable popularity in South America and Jamaica itself." 5 We acknowledge 
the success had until they disbanded in 2012. · Although the evidence submitted shows. 
the Petitioner received recognition from the field as a member of , and that he was an 
active reggae musician as of the date the petition was filed in October 2016, it does not establish that 
he has sustained national or international acclaim as a member of ___ since 2012. 
Regarding the showcasing of the Petitioner's music in concerts; the record reflects that he was the 
lead singer for between 1998 and · 2012, when it disbanded. Between 2013 and 
October 2016 when the instant petition was filed, the Petitioner performed with his new band, 
at venues predominantly in Florida. He has n'ot shown how the concerts he performed with 
brought national or international acclaim to him. -While frequent performances are 
inherent to the musical profession, the regulation requires that evidence demonstrate sustained 
national or international acclaim, and not simply document a petitioner's continued employment or 
activity in his or her field. In this case, while the record documents the Petitioner's performances at 
concerts and festivals, the evidence does not establish that the festivals or concerts mentioned in the 
flyers advertising the events are of such a stature that participation in them might demonstrate 
national or international acclaim. Therefore, this evidence has not established that the Petitioner has 
enjoyed sustained acclaim as a result of his performances with 
As to his leading or critical role, the Petitioner asserts that the previously discussed letters, including 
those from former band members and 
5 The Petitioner also cites to the transcript ofan interview he conducted in 2018 with the Venezuelan radio 
station Circuito X, in which he discussed his work with · and ~s a solo artist, as well as upcoming projects. 
As previously discussed, however, the Petitioner must establish that. all eligibility requirements for the immigration 
benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing through adjudication . 8 C.F.R. § I03.2(b)(l). 
· Thus, the Petitioner cannot establish eligibility with the interview that was published after the filing of the instant 
petition. · 
6 
.
Matter of L-E-S-L-
establish the Petitioner played a lead and critical role in as a founding 
member, composer, and lead singer. We acknowledge the Petitioner's rnle as lead singer for 
from 1998 to 2012, however,ias discussed previously, the record does not demonstrate that 
he has enjoyed sustained national or international acclaim as a result of his performances with 
The Petitioner also asserts that he played a "leading role in the Latin Rastafarian community 
as a Latin American ambassador and cultural representative," in helping to "spread the Rastafarian 
message to Latin America through his reggae music." He cites to his participation in the 2007 
· exhibit, as discussed in two letters from a 
cultural anthropologist with the He .also highlights his attendance at the 
2005 in Panama, as mentioned in a letter from 
of the The Petitioner has not demonstrated, however, how the Latin 
Rastafarian community constitutes an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation 
in·-the Petitioner's field of reggae music, or otherwise shown how this evidence co~tributes to a 
finding of sustained national or international acclaim. 
With respect to commercial success, the Petitioner 's initial evidence included a letter from 
a manager with the of Venezuela, stating that 
the Petitioner "with his band has sold more than l 0,000 copies," and describing him . 
as "a renowned singer and songwriter." As noted by the Director, · letter does not 
specify whether "copies" refers to albums. Assuming that it does, did not explain what 
information she used to derive her statement regardingJhe band's record sales, nor did the Petitioner 
offer evidence of the band's commercial successes through receipts or sales. The Petitioner also· 
provided documentation for 2009 and 2013 from the 
showing international certification levels for album unit sales, indicating that in 
Venezuela an album that sells 5,000 units will be certified gold, while one that sells I 0,000 units will 
· be certified platinum. · · 
In response to the Director's RFE, the Petitioner provided further-documentation of 
internatii:mal certification levels for 2007, and the above-referenced letters froth 
and asserting that the albums have 
been "Gold" albums, each selling more than 5,000 albums. However, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate / that any of albums have enjoyed unit sales at levels that reflect 
commercial successes compared to other musicians. Further, while we acknowledge that those 
albums have enjoyed a level of commercial success, and the Petitioner 's·role in the band, the record 
reflects that the band dissolved in 2012, after which the Petitioner performed on his own. He has not 
shown that he subsequently enjoyed commercial success in the field with his new band 
that resulted in sustained national or international acclaim. 
UL CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he is eligible as an individual 
of extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
Matter of L~E-S-L-
ORDER:· The appeal is dismissed. --
Cite as Matter of L-E-S:-L-; ID# 2018580 (AAO Feb. 15, 2019) 
8 \ U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19809940 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a financial management business, seeks to classify the Beneficiary , a mathematical 
researcher, as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) 
section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant 
visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
show the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32(D.D.C. 20l3);Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria relating to judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), scholarly articles at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been 
recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has 
risen to the very top of the field. On appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context 
of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManuaLhtml (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extra ordinary ability under section 2 03(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 
international acclaim, 2 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the 
Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary received a bachelor of Sf ieuce from University 
in 2011 and a doctor of philosophy from the University ofl _I in 2016. In addition, the 
Beneficiary served as a research fellow and lecturer at the I _ the University of 
from2016 to 2018. Moreover, the Petitioner has employed the Beneficiary as a 
mathematical researcher since 2019. As indicated above, the Director determined thatthe Beneficiary 
reviewed a few papers, authored some scholarly material, and serves in a critical position while being 
compensated at a higher rate by the Petitioner. However, the record does not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. 
No. 101-723, 59(Sept. 19, 1990). 
Relating to the Beneficiary's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.4 The record 
reflects that the Beneficiary participated in reviewing five papers for three journals and two 
conferences. However, the Petitioner did not establish that these instances place the Beneficiary 
among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner 
did not show, for example, how the Beneficiary's review experience compares to others at the very 
top of the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that these five judging events, occurring approximately 
within four years from filing of the petition, contributes to a finding that the Beneficiary has a career 
of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not establish, for 
instance, that the Beneficiary garnered wide attention from the field based on his work reviewing 
journal and conference papers. Moreover, participating in the peer review process does not 
automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Without evidence that sets him apart from others in 
his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history of completing a substantial number of review 
requests relative to others, served in editorial positions for distinguished journals or publications, or 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providingBlack's Law Dictionary's definitionof"sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCI S officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to detennin e if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high leve I of expertise 
of the immigrantclassification). 
4 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.I,supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained nationalorintemationalacclaim). 
3 
chaired technical committees for reputable conferences, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's peer review experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to the 
very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automaticallyplace one at the top of the field. 5 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary authored three journal 
articles and four conference papers. 6 However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary's publication record of seven documents in a six-year timeframe, with his most recent 
occurring approximately two years ago, is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and 
sustaining national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of1he 
Act. The commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203 (b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act 
provide that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability 
is reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation 1han 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704(July 5, 1991). Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that the Beneficiary's authorships reflect being among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the 
significance of the Beneficiary's authorships or how his publications compare to others who are 
viewed to be at the very top of the field. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence ofhis written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other 
mathematical researchers have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits 
determination stage is appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. 
Here, the record contains a few reference letters that briefly describe the Beneficiary's past research 
projects while pursuing his higher education but do not elaborate and explain any attention that he 
received from the field based on his written work and research. For instance,! I 
discussed the Beneficiary's research project that he presented at an A1iificial Intelligence in Statistics 
conference and described it as "insightful and unique"; however,1 ldid not indicate any 
impact it had on the field or whether the Beneficiary garnered any significant notoriety from other 
mathematical researchers or statisticians. Furthermore,! opined that the Beneficiary's 
"work has generated widespread commentary, in particular for its impact on the fields of statistics, 
machine learning and digital humanities" and broadly claimed that his "research has been cited 
numerous times by other leading authors, whose works are also published [in] prestigious journals." I I did not provide specific information, such as identifying the authors, papers, and publications 
that cited to the Beneficiary's research or the number of citations to each of the Beneficiary's published 
works, and explain how those citations sufficiently demonstrate a level of interest in the field 
commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim or represent attention at a level 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra,at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicativeofbeingoneofthat small percentage who has risen to the very top ofthe field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 The record contains threeadditionalarticles indicating the Beneficiary's authorship; however, neither the Petitionernor 
the material shows anypublication. 
4 
consistent with being among small percentage at the very top of his field. See section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's written or presented material garnered him 
any national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not 
submit corroborating citatory documentation or other evidence consistent with a very high standard 
requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required for lesser 
classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Further, the Petitioner did not show that the field has been 
influenced by the Beneficiary's work or that it has somehow impacted the field in a significant manner. 
As it pertains to his roles, as mentioned above, the Beneficiary served as a research fellow and lecturer 
at the I I the University of I I for approximately two years and has been 
employed as a mathematical researcher by the Petitioner since 2019. However, the Petitioner did not 
establish whether the Beneficiary's employment resulted in attention or recognition from the field, 
reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive 
documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
While he submitted a 2018 reference letter froml I, who indicated the Beneficiary's 
postdoctoral researcher position within thel the University of and a 
screenshot from the school's website showing that he taught a course, the evidence does not 
demonstrate that the received any national or international acclaim from this position. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided letters describing the Beneficiary's contributions in his mathematical researcher 
position, such as developing and enhancing mathematical machine-learning and statistical algorithms, 
leading the institutional funds, and mentoring new hires. 7 The letters, however, do not discuss whether 
any of the Beneficiary's professional achievements with the Petitioner garnered the Beneficiary any 
national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the letters do not show 
the Beneficiary's recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being among that 
small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(2). Here, the Petitioner did not 
establish how the Beneficiary's roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Finally, although the record reflects the Beneficiary's income with the Petitioner, the record does not 
establish that the Beneficiary commands earnings commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that the 
Beneficiary's wages are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the ve1y 
top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how the Beneficiary's salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he 
received notoriety or attention based on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or 
placing him in the upper echelon. In addition, the Petitioner did not document the Beneficiary's 
earnings from other employers, including the ______ the University of I I 
showing a consistent history and recognition from the field of the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability. 
See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
7 See letters from __ head of equities research and institutional funds, and chief operating 
officer. 
5 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiaty's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) 
( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal 
quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive 
by design,"); Hamalv. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (HamalII), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 
(D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of 
prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 
2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of 
petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) 
(stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this 
designation"); Lee v. Ziglar, 23 7 F. Supp. 2d 914, 918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of 
the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Beneficiary previously received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Beneficiary, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard­
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, ajf'd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS 
service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24323456 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a sombo and judo champion , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement , that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) , including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner competes in the two martial arts disciplines of sombo wrestling and judo. The Petitioner 
outlined his achievements to include, in part, winning the I lat the World Sombo Championship 
in and obtaining! in the Judo International Tournament in The Petitioner stated 
that he accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which have been recognized on 
both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied three of 
these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to the receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor and 
for published material about the Petitioner in professional or major media. On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the two criteria that the Petitioner met. 
But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the other claimed criterion. 
A. Evidentiary Criterion 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner claimed membership in three organizations. After reviewing the Petitioner's material, 
the Director determined that he did not meet the requirements of this criterion because he did not 
establish that the organizations required outstanding achievements as a condition of membership. 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner maintains that the memberships he has attained qualify under this 
criterion. 
2 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that he is a member of an association in his field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
First, we consider the International Judo Federation (IJF). The Petitioner submitted a copy of his 
official IJF identification card, which states the "bearer of this Identification Card is authorized to 
participate in all UF organized events during its validity." The Petitioner also presented a printout 
from IJF' s website listing the Petitioner as an active judo world circuit judoka. Further, the Petitioner 
submitted evidence of how countries can become members of the IJF and statutory provisions for the 
IJF member national federations. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that the IJF is an International Olympic Committee recognized 
official International Federation for Judo and is responsible for the integrity of their sport on the 
international level. While we acknowledge that the IJF is an international association, the Petitioner 
did not provide sufficient evidence regarding the eligibility requirements for becoming a member of 
the IJF. Although the Petitioner provided some information regarding the federations' membership, 
it is not clear how members are eligible to join. The submitted documentation does not show that IJF 
utilized national or international recognized experts to judge the achievement of prospective members 
to determine if the achievements were outstanding. Also lacking was an indication that IJF used this 
outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. Each of these are mandatory 
requirements within the regulation. 
The Petitioner also provided a copy of his membership card from USA Judo. However, the Petitioner 
did not provide any evidence of the eligibility requirements to become a member of USA Judo. The 
record does not contain sufficient evidence to support the claim that USA Judo requires outstanding 
achievements of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts. 
The Petitioner further provided a copy of his membership cards from the Republic of Moldova 
I titling him as an I I ___________ 
I The Petitioner also submitted a letter from the State Secretary of the The Petitioner lof the Republic of Moldova confirming that the Petitioner of was granted these titles. In addition, the state secretary indicated the "Unique Sports Classification of 
the Republic of Moldova is a statutory document in the domain of physical training and sports, which 
states requirements and regulations necessary for conferral of sportive titles and categories in the 
Republic of Moldova, as well as conditions for their fulfilment." The letter lists the Moldovan statutes 
for granting these titles to an individual. On appeal, the Petitioner claims that Moldova has a statutory 
requirement to obtain these titles and an individual cannot pay a fee or win an event to obtain this 
distinction. However, the Petitioner did not provide a copy of the statutes outlining these titles' 
eligibility requirements, or any other corroborating evidence regarding the eligibility requirements to 
obtain these titles. Absent from the evidence is a showing that the Republic of Moldova! I I !utilized nationally or internationally recognized experts to judge the achievements 
of prospective members to determine if the achievements were outstanding, and an indication that it 
this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility for membership. It is insufficient to allege 
3 
eligibility through conclusory assertions that are not supported by sufficient evidence, which proves 
the allegation. 1 
On appeal the Petitioner does not explain how any of the organizations require outstanding 
achievements as one of the minimum requirements for membership. For the reasons stated above, the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 2 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal//), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
1 Matter of Ho, 22 T&N Dec. 206, 213 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998); Fano v. O'Neill, 806 F.2d 1262, 1266 (5th Cir. 1987); I 756, 
Inc. v. Att'y Gen, 745 F. Supp. 9, 17 (D.D.C. 1990). 
2 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25801610 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, finding that the Petitioner had only 
satisfied two of the initial three required evidentiary criteria. We agreed with the Director's decision 
and dismissed the Petitioner's appeal. We also dismissed the combined motion to reopen and motion 
to reconsider on the same grounds. The matter is now before us again on a combined motion to reopen 
and motion to reconsider. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motions.1 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 
8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration; be 
supported by any pertinent precedent decision to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy; and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the 
record at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Further, the review of any motion is 
narrowed to the basis for the prior adverse decision. Accordingly, we will examine any new facts and 
1 The Petitioner is also requesting oral argument because he believes his arguments have not been adequately addressed in 
writing by the previous decisions. The regulations provide that the requesting party must explain in writing why oral 
argument is necessary. Furthermore , U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has the sole authority to grant 
or deny a request for oral argument and will grant argument only in cases involving unique factors or issues of law that 
cannot be adequately addressed in writing. See 8 C.P.R. § 103.3(b). In this instance, the Petitioner has not identified any 
unique factors or issues of law to be resolved. Further, we are not persuaded that the reasons for the Petitioner's request 
are sufficient to demonstrate the necessity for an oral argument. Moreover , the written record of proceedings, including 
the Petitioner's briefs on appeal and on motion, fully represents the facts and issues in this matter. Consequently , the 
request for oral argument is denied. 
arguments to the extent that they pertain to our most recent decision, the dismissal of the prior 
combined motion to reopen and motion to reconsider. 
In the present motion, the Petitioner continues to assert that his work has sustained national and 
international acclaim and that his work constitutes contributions of "major significance" in the music 
and entertainment industry. He further states that he has presented extensive documentation and 
evidence on appeal and on motion to satisfy at least three of the required evidentiary criteria. In 
support of his assertions, the Petitioner submits a news article by Novascience, dated 2019, 
which confirms that he attended the masterclass by the Here, the news 
article does not state a new fact. We have previously acknowledged and discussed the Petitioner's 
masterclass with I I in our appeal dismissal and concluded that he did not establish that 
attending such a class is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the 
field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). Since the current motion to reopen does not include new 
facts or new evidence, the motion does not meet the requirement of a motion to reopen and must be 
dismissed. 
The Petitioner has also not demonstrated any error of fact or law in our dismissal of the prior motion. 
The Petitioner argues that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of law or policy 
because we did not adequately address the 2022 Rolling Stone article. The Petitioner asserts that this 
article is additional evidence that his work is of "major significance in the field" and, therefore, he 
satisfies the criterion at 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(v). As discussed in our prior decision, the 2022 Rolling 
Stone article does not establish the Petitioner's eligibility at the time of filing in 2021 as the article is 
from 2022. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Nevertheless, we have reviewed the article and find that it 
does not satisfy the "contributions of major significance in the field" criterion. The article outlines 
the Petitioner's career and mentions his accomplishments in the music industry, which we have already 
addressed in our prior decisions. As previously noted, although the Petitioner's work has had influence 
on individuals in the music and entertainment industry, he has not established that the impact of his 
music rises to the level of major significance in the field. The Petitioner has not established that we 
misapplied law or policy and that our prior decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record 
of proceedings at the time of the decision. Thus, we will also dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 15, 2024 In Re: 29833910 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an entrepreneur, city counselor, and philanthropist, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for this classification by establishing 
his receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, a petitioner (or anyone on the 
petitioner's behalf) must establish that they: 
• Have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; 
• Seek to enter the United States to continue work in their area of extraordinary ability; and that 
• Their entry into the United States will prospectively substantially benefit the United States. 
Extraordinary ability must be demonstrated by evidence of sustained national or international acclaim 
as well as extensive documentation that their achievements have been recognized in the field. Section 
203(b )(1) of the Act. 
The implementing regulation further states that the term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." It also 
sets forth a multi-part analysis. A pet1t10ner can demonstrate international recogrnt10n of their 
achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized 
award). If such evidence is unavailable, then they must alternatively provide evidence that meets at 
least three ofthe ten listed criteria, which call for evidence about other awards they may have received, 
published material about them in qualifying media, and their authorship of scholarly articles, among 
other types of evidence. 8 C.F.R. §§ 204.5(h)(2),(3). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination, assessing whether the record shows that the 
individual possesses the acclaim and recognition required for this highly exclusive immigrant visa 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
TI. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an entrepreneur who has also engaged in municipal politics and contributed to 
philanthropic projects. He states that he would like to "continue [his] life's work in the United States" 
and remain involved in entrepreneurial activities. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets the same six evidentiary criteria 
he previously claimed. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he does not 
meet at least three of the evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation ofthe alien 's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to establish that they meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have received a prize 
or award, that their receipt of the prize or award was based upon excellence in their field of endeavor, 
and that the prize or award is nationally or internationally recognized in the field of endeavor. Here, 
the Petitioner submitted evidence that he was named as an honorary citizen of two Brazilian cities. 
But the Director determined that neither ofthese awards were nationally or internationally recognized, 
and appeared to conclude that they were not granted for excellence in the Petitioner's field ofendeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the award froml Iwas granted due to his "brilliant service 
as a Councilman," and that he received the one from the city ofl lbecause he "transformed the 
funerary system of the state of Ceara" with the creation of his company. The evidence supports those 
assertions and shows that the titles were awarded for excellence in the fields of civil service and 
entrepreneurialism, respectively. 
2 
As to the scope of the recognition of these awards, the Petitioner asserts, as he did in responding to 
the Director's request for evidence (RFE), that "being awarded Citizen of any city, municipality or 
country is an internationally recognized award." He asserts that many local governments in Brazil 
award these titles, and he previously submitted evidence about some of them. But the Petitioner 
misconstrues the language of the criterion, which refers to the recognition of the specific prizes or 
awards that he has received. The fact that many local, regional, and national governments name 
honorary citizens has no bearing on whether the awards he received are nationally or internationally 
recognized. The evidence shows that both were awarded by city councils, and the record does not 
establish that either was recognized beyond those city councils, let alone at the national or international 
level. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
have they made original contributions, but that those contributions have been of major significance in 
their field of endeavor. For example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise 
risen to a level of major significance. See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35. 
The Petitioner bases his claim to this criterion on his service as a member ofthel I city council, 
and in particular his draft of a resolution which led to the creation of the Commission for Tourism, 
Industry, Commerce and Services for the city. He asserts that due to his role in the creation of this 
commissionJ !experienced growth in its tourism industry in the following years. 
The evidence establishes the Petitioner's role as the author of the resolution creating this commission. 
The record also includes a report from the City Hall ofl lwhich states that the tourism industry 
in the city grew from 4% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1995 to 9.8% in 2005, the year the 
committee was created, and rose to 11.1 % in 2013. It also notes that 'jobs generated in hotel and 
food" increased from almost 118,000 in 1996 to an estimated 140,000 in 2013. However, the sections 
of the report that were submitted ( cover, title page, and pages 13 and 14) do not attribute this growth 
in the tourism industry to the actions ofthe commission, or even mention the commission. In addition, 
while the Petitioner claims that he was elected as the president of this commission, he did not submit 
evidence in support of this assertion. He has therefore not established that he made an original 
business-related contribution in the field of civil service. 
In addition, even if his creation of the commission can be considered as an original contribution, the 
evidence does not show that it was of major significance. The Petitioner initially claimed that tourism 
accounts for 70% forl IGDP, thus showing "the magnitude of such a contribution." But he 
does not provide evidence to support this statistic, which would be a far larger portion of GDP than 
was reported just 10 years earlier in the report mentioned above. More importantly, even if the record 
did show his leadership of the commission and the commission's impact on tourism in I 
which as stated above it does not, the Petitioner has not established that this would constitute a 
contribution of major significance in his field. The report shows only modest growth in the impact of 
tourism in the city in the years after the creation of the commission. Further, the Petitioner has not 
established that even his claimed growth in tourism would constitute a contribution of major 
3 I 
significance in the field of public service, which is far broader than the issue of tourism in a single 
large city. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his authorship of a number of additional proposed bills in 
thel I city council, some ofwhich were subsequently approved. But he does not claim that any 
of those other bills made a significant impact in his field, or submit evidence to show any impact. 
For all of the reasons given above, we conclude that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe alien 's authorship ofscholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
This criterion requires that a petitioner establish that they have authored articles which have been 
published, that those articles are scholarly in nature, and that the media in which they were published 
were professional or major trade publications or other major media. A scholarly article in a non­
academic field is one written for learned persons in that field, meaning that they have "profound 
knowledge gained by study." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
In her decision, the Director determined that a book authored by the Petitioner, ....I ______ __, 
was not scholarly in nature and did not constitute a professional or major trade publication or other 
major medium. She noted that it was written for new and current entrepreneurs, and that those new to 
the field would not have profound knowledge of it. Further, the Director concluded that the book's 
availability in online bookstores was not sufficient to establish that it was a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that since he is an experienced and successful entrepreneur and is 
thus a learned person in that field, the book he wrote must be considered to be scholarly, and that the 
Director misconstrued the USCIS Policy Manual. However, it is the Petitioner that misunderstands 
that guidance and the meaning of the language of this criterion. While a scholarly article in a non­
academic field will most likely be written by an expert in that field, as with the academic fields, it is 
those for whom the book is written that determines whether it can be considered to be scholarly. The 
Petitioner does not dispute the Director's characterization ofthe book as not for learned entrepreneurs, 
and the translated table of contents does not alter that perception. 
In addition, the letters written by those who state that they were influenced by the Petitioner's book 
confirm its intended audience. For example,~------------~writes in his letter 
that the book "is a manual not only for those who want to be entrepreneurs, but for a very successful 
life, regardless of the career one seeks to pursue." And in another letter,I I 
I Iwrites that "many of the points presented by the book instigated me to seek not only to 
be an entrepreneur ... " Based on this evidence, we agree with the Director that I lis 
not a scholarly article or publication, and thus that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
4 
Evidence that the alien has pe1formed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish that they have performed in a role that is either 
leading or critical, and that the role was performed for an organization or establishment having a 
distinguished reputation. Here, the Petitioner bases his claim under this criterion on his role with the I I. 1 The Petitioner described his position as Counselor 
to the President of the church, in which he acted as a facilitator for self-reliance group for 
entrepreneurs. The Director noted that the evidence appeared to list the title of his position as 
Coordination Council Welfare Specialist, and that a letter verified that the Petitioner volunteered and 
was involved in advising new entrepreneurs, and concluded that this evidence was insufficient to show 
that the role was leading or critical. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner reiterates that he "was invited to be Counselor to the Presidency" of ~ but does not refer to evidence to support this assertion. Regarding his role as a leader of the 
self-reliance group, he states that his role was critical because he "is a renowned entrepreneur and 
helped others ..." He also refers to the letter from Welfare and Self­
Sufficienc Service Manager 
whic describes as "a non-profit institution linked to the.__ _________ ~" 
.______ _. verifies the Petitioner's volunteer work, and states that the participation ofthe Petitioner 
and other local businessmen was important because one of the purposes of his organization "is the 
development and implementation of new ventures." But the letter does not indicate that the Petitioner 
played a leading role for the organization, and does not provide sufficient information to show that his 
role was critical. Evidence of a critical role should establish that a petitioner has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization's or establishment's activities, or 
those of a division or department. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), 
www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. Here, the letter does not include sufficient detail to establish that the 
Petitioner's role for Self-Sufficiency Service was critical for the outcome of the organization's 
activities, especially considering entrepreneurialism was only one of its purposes, and the Petitioner 
led only one of these groups. We note that the organization's "2020 Area Plan," submitted along with 
the Petitioner's response to the Director's RFE, states the following: 
Self-reliance groups combine practical skills with spiritual principles to help people 
help themselves. Self-reliance groups are usually small, less than 12 people, and are 
led by a facilitator, not an expert or teacher. Each self-reliance group focuses on one 
of four topics: employment, education, small business, or personal finance. 
In addition, another section of the plan, in answering the question of whether facilitators need to be 
experts, farther diminishes the claimed criticality of the Petitioner's role: 
1 We note that the Petitioner Ialso initially claimed to have served in a leading role as leader of the opposition in the city 
council ofl Brazil. However, he did not submit additional information regarding this role or organization in 
responding to the Director's RFE, and does not repeat this claim on appeal. An issue not raised on appeal is waived. See. 
e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 l&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 
2012)). 
5 
No. Self-reliance groups are designed to be facilitated and not taught by a teacher. The 
materials provide the experience, and the Spirit and power of the group make up for 
any difference. Simply follow the material and seek the Spirit. Facilitators will receive 
training. 
Further, givenl !description of Self-Sufficiency Service as an organization linked to 
Othis evidence does not support the Petitioner's claim to have played a critical role fore=] as an 
organization. As such, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not established 
that he played a leading or critical role for D and add that he also has not shown that he served in 
a qualifying role for Self-Sufficiency Service. 
While the Petitioner does not meet this criterion based upon his role, he has also not submitted 
evidence to establish that Self-Sufficiency Service has a distinguished reputation, whether it is a 
department or division otOor a separate organization. For both ofthese reasons, we conclude that 
he does not meet this criterion. 
B. Comparable Evidence 
A petitioner may submit comparable evidence to establish eligibility as an individual of extraordinary 
ability if the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) do not readily apply to their occupation. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). To do so, they must establish that the regulatory criteria are not readily 
applicable to their occupation, and, if not, that the evidence provided is trnly comparable to the type 
of evidence contemplated under the criteria. An unsupported assertion that the listed evidentiary 
criterion does not readily apply to a petitioner's occupation is not probative. See generally 6 USCIS 
Policy Manual F.2(B)(l). 
The Petitioner initially made claims under this provision, referring generally to evidence of his 
education and reference letters regarding his philanthropic activities. The Director stated in their RFE 
that the Petitioner had not demonstrated that the criteria did not apply to his occupation, and in 
response the Petitioner provided additional evidence regarding a variety of issues. However, his 
explanation that "there are some achievements in the field that proves his eligibility that do not meet 
the standards described in the regulations" flips this requirement on its head, focusing on the evidence 
first and not how the criteria do not apply to his occupation. He went on to describe how this evidence 
establishes his standing in his field and national or international acclaim, but these issues are 
considered in a final merits determination if a petitioner successfully shows that they meet the initial 
evidence requirement for this classification. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not met the requirements for the consideration of 
comparable evidence, and the Petitioner does not challenge this aspect of the Director's decision on 
appeal. As previously noted, an issue not raised on appeal is waived. See, e.g., Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 
I&N Dec. 330, 336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 25 I&N Dec. 657,658 n.2 (BIA 2012)). 
We will therefore not farther consider his previous assertions regarding comparable evidence. 
6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria, and therefore 
has not met the initial evidence requirement for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
Since the identified basis for denial is dis positive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding published material about him under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and a high salary or other significantly high remuneration at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(3)(3)(viii). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (stating that agencies 
are not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate 
decision); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
While we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not 
support a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19539561 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )( 1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that while the Petitioner 
established the initial evidence requirements by meeting at least three of the evidentiary criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) , the record did not establish that she possesses sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the very few at the top of her field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that the Director did not consider the totality of the record in making his decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner 's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pettt10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has been working as an actress, primarily in theater productions but also in film, for 
more than a decade. She earned a Bachelor of Performing Arts from the I I 
Universitvl in 2010, and completed coursework towards a Bachelor of Fine Arts from I I University. The record includes a job offer letter from a company m 
Massachusetts to work as a media and broadcasting head. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material about her in qualifying media, 
her participation as a judge of the work of others, and the display of her work in artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two additional evidentiary criteria, 
those relating to a leading or critical role and commercial success in the performing arts. 1 After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that she has met the requisite 
three criteria, but also that the record does not establish that she qualifies as a noncitizen of 
extraordinary ability. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
1 The Petitioner does not reassert her claims to the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii) or (vi) on appeal. We will 
therefore consider the evidence submitted in support of these criteria only as part of the final merits determination. 
2 
The record includes copies of several articles published in Nepali media which discuss or mention the 
Petitioner and her work in varying degrees. For purposes of this criterion, while published material 
need not be primarily or only about a petitioner to qualify, it cannot be solely about their employer or 
another organization with which they are associated. 6 USCJS Policy Manual at F.2, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. Here, the Director listed the names of several publications 
which published articles that were included in the record, but did not identify specific articles which 
were about the Petitioner. After review, we conclude that at least two articles are about the Petitioner: 
an interview of her published in Nepali Times in its I 2013 edition, and a review of an 
adaptation of Shakespeare's I I in the I I 2014 edition of the 
Kathmandu Post. In addition, the record includes evidence which establishes that both of these 
publications are major media in Nepal. We therefore agree that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To support her claim to meeting this criterion, the Petitioner submitted letters from the organizers of 
two theater festivals: the Theater Festival and thel I Theater Festival. This evidence 
is further supported by two articles posted on a website which indicate that she served as the head of 
the jury for the Theater Festival in 2012 and for the I I Theater Festival in 2010. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the evidence shows that she also served as a judge at the 
Theater Festival. However, the two letters from I I do not 
identify him as an organizer of this event, or as someone associated with an organization which 
organizes it, nor do they provide specific dates or even the year or edition of the event at which the 
Petitioner is claimed to have participated as a judge. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner meets this criterion based upon the evidence of her work at the 2012 I I Theater 
Festival and the 20101 I Theater Festival. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence of her performance in numerous theater productions and movies as 
an actor, as well as in other roles including translator, director, and producer. However, we note that 
not every display of work by an artist takes place at an artistic exhibition or showcase, and it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish that a particular venue or event at which their work was displayed was 
an artistic exhibition or showcase. Id. Although the Petitioner has submitted evidence that she has 
performed as an actor in many theater productions and films, the evidence does not establish that the 
plays and films were shown at artistic exhibitions as opposed to shows presented for commercial 
purposes. 
Turning to her work as a movie director, the evidence shows that films she directed or produced were 
shown at film festivals including the 2020 Film Festival and the 201 I I I Film Festival. Because this evidence shows that those film festivals were artistic rather than 
commercial exhibitions of her work, we conclude that based upon this evidence the Petitioner meets 
this criterion. 
3 
As noted above, on appeal the Petitioner asserts that she also meets two additional criteria. However, 
because we have determined that she has met the requisite three criteria in order to meet the initial 
evidence requirements for this classification, we will not consider her claims to those criteria. Rather, 
we will review her arguments and the evidence submitted in their support as part of the totality of the 
evidence when conducting a final merits determination. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director's final merits determination focused on the evidence 
submitted for each criteria instead of considering the totality of the evidence to determine whether she 
had the requisite sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the 
top of her field. In addition, she asserts that the Director did not give sufficient consideration to the 
many reference letters submitted on her behalf, and highlights phrases in some of the published 
material in the record. 
The record shows that after obtaining her performing arts degree in 2010, the Petitioner began an 
active period in Nepali theater and film before coming to the United States in 2015 to continue her 
education. Articles in Nepali publications and reference letters from colleagues and others in the 
Nepali theater and film sector confirm that she performed, and in many cases played a leading 
character, in several theater and film roductions during this period. For example, the article published 
in the Nepali Times in its 2013 edition is about the Petitioner and her portrayal of one of 
the characters in the play an adaptation of I The 
article notes that the production was created by ______ a group co-founded by the 
Petitioner, and describes it as "her show." Another article about the play, published in the Kathmandu 
Post a day earlier, mentions the Petitioner but focuses on the director, another co-founder of I And a letter from the program director of !Theater Nepal states that the 
play was staged at that venue for 30 days in 2013 and attracted full-house audiences. 
Another example of a performance by the Petitioner which received positive mention in major media 
was her role in I I covered in a review in the Nepali Times on I I 
2012. This play was also reviewed in the Kathmandu Post on the previous day, with the article noting 
that the Petitioner is one of the "well-known faces" in the performance. 
However, the evidence does not establish that her acting roles in other theater productions brought the 
Petitioner the same level of recognition as her role in these plays. The Petitioner asserts that her role 
in the Nepali adaptation ofl I was commercially successful, relying upon an article 
posted as a blog. While that article includes sections of reviews of the play that are claimed to have 
been published in major Nepali media, some of which mention the Petitioner, the full reviews are not 
4 
included in the record as published by those media, nor is there further information regarding the 
website where the blog was posted. Another article posted on a website, bishowkhabar.com, also 
mentions the Petitioner and her claimed high salary for her work as an actor inl I but 
as with the blog article, information about this website does not appear in the record to show that this 
is either a reliable or influential source of information. We also note that despite the claims of the 
Petitioner's commercial success (and high salary) which is largely based upon these articles, 
information about ticket sales for this show is not included in the record, nor is evidence of the 
Petitioner's income or how it relates to that of other actors in Nepal. In addition, a letter from one of 
the Petitioner's co-stars in this play I states only that "it is an established fact that all 
the artists involved in that play were paid the highest amount till date for a single production," but 
does not provide salary figures (his own or the Petitioner's) or refer to any documentation to support 
this claim. 
Regarding her acting roles in films, the Petitioner submitted articles posted to several websites that 
mention her as an actress in II I andl 12. The record also includes 
screen shots of movies on Y ouTube, and photographs of the Petitioner taken during the filming of 
these movies. However, although a reference letter froml I founder of a website focused 
on Nepali theater, states that the Petitioner "has had a very strong presence in Nepali film," the record 
does not support this statement. The articles mentioned above primarily list her amongst others as an 
actress in the film discussed, and the evidence does not show that she has received critical acclaim or 
commercial success at the national or international level for these roles. 
In addition to material published in Nepali media, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of an award 
she received to support her acclaim as an actress, for at the 2010 at the annuall I 
One Act Play Drama/Dance/Music and Instrumental Competition. In response to the Director's 
RFE, the Petitioner submitted a letter froml la journalist and co-founder of an 
Indian news website, in which he describes the history and competition rules for this competition. 
However,! I does not indicate that he is a member of the organization which sponsors the 
competition, the I IArtist Association, or otherwise explain the basis of his knowledge. More 
importantly, the evidence does not establish that this award is recognized as being prestigious in the 
field of acting at the national or international level, or otherwise brought acclaim to the Petitioner as 
an actress. We note that the most in-depth article about the Petitioner and her work, published in the 
Nepali Times onl 2013, does not mention her receipt of this award, nor does the record 
include evidence that the award is well publicized in major or arts media. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of her participation as a judge of other actors. Specifically, 
she submitted a letter from the organizer of the Theater Festival which states that she was a 
jury member for the festival, as well as an article from a website stating that she was the head of the 
jury for the first edition of this event in 2012. The evidence indicates that the festival was open to 
The Petitioner also participated as a jury member for the I I Theater 
Festival in 2010, which consisted of plays I I and was held in 
I I As with the evidence of the award received by the Petitioner, we note that the evidence 
does not show that either of these festivals received major media coverage, and it is therefore not 
apparent that the Petitioner garnered acclaim through her participation as a jury member. In addition, 
2 The record includes multiple alternate spellings of the title of this film. 
5 
she judged the performance of students and children, not professional actors, which reflects upon her 
perceived status in the acting field and the level of acclaim she has received for her work. 
In addition to the evidence of her work as an actor, the Petitioner also submitted evidence of havin 
performed other roles in theater productions and films. She directed the 
School's Theater Club in three plays: I and in 2014 andI in 2015. Also, the evidence indicates that she translated and adapted productions for the 
Ne ali sta e, includin and Although her work onD 
_________ and ____ (in which she also acted, as noted above) received 
mention in major Nepali media, the evidence does not establish that her work directing secondary 
students led to acclaim or placed her as one of the small percentage of theater directors at the top of 
the field. 
The record also shows that the Petitioner served as a director in films. Specifically, she served as a 
castin director in the film I I a director of the short filml I 
and was a producer for the short film I I The latter two films were screened at the 
Film Festival in 2020 and the Film Festival in 2016, 
respectively. However, the record indicates that th festival was intended to highlight the 
work of local filmmakers, and the record does not demonstrate that either the I festival 
or another festival in I wherel lwas also screened received widespread media attention 
or were otherwise recognized in the film industry as prestigious or important festivals where the work 
of top filmmakers is displayed. Further, we note that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that either 
film was singled out for recognition among others displayed at those festivals. 
Another aspect of the Petitioner's work in Nepali theater is shown by her participation in related 
organizations. As previously noted, the evidence shows that she was a co-founder of I I a group which went on to stage theater productions in which she also performed and played 
other roles. While her role was no doubt leading or critical tol I the evidence does 
not demonstrate that her activities in this role laced her among the small percentage of actors at the 
top of her field. Her co-founder, _ explains that the group worked together from 2014 to 
20 l 7 and mentions the production of I and ________ He also states that 
the group "started the culture of freelancing artists in Nepal," but the record does not include evidence 
to support this statement. 
The Petitioner also points to evidence of her membership inl I Theater on appeal, as shown by a 
letter froml I president of the organization. I lists some of the theater 
productions that the Petitioner was involved in, but does not indicate which of these were done as a 
part of I Theater. In addition, evidence of some of the productions mentioned in his letter does 
not appear elsewhere in the record. He also states that the Petitioner "led our theater group to the 
international theater festivals," but again there is no documentary evidence of the mentioned festivals, 
nor is the letter specific about how she led the group or whether she or the group received acclaim for 
performing at these festivals. 
The evidence shows that the Petitioner's work as an actress in some Nepali theater productions 
received positive reviews and attention at the national level, and that her work in adapting and directing 
plays, primarily at the student level, was well appreciated. However, this media attention occurred 
6 
over a brief period of time, and the record does not show that her work was formally recognized by 
performing arts organizations or establish that it led to commercial success or notable financial gain 
for the Petitioner. Further, while her work in other roles in Nepali theater was mentioned in critical 
reviews of the work, the evidence does not establish that this work placed her as one of the few 
directors or translators/adaptors at the very top of the field. When the record is viewed in its entirety, 
it does not show that the Petitioner enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or international level for 
her work as an actor in theater and film, or for her work in other roles in theater production and 
direction. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 19497914 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business operation s specialist , seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act(the Act) section203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(IXA) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences , arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth arrmlti-partanalysis. First, a petitioner can demonstraterecognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or demonstrated that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director determined that the 
Petitioner fulfilled the leading or critical role criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and the high 
salary criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains eligibility for a third 
criterion relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). After reviewing all of the 
presented evidence, the record does not establish that the Petitioner meets the requirements of at least 
three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed that his "name and achievements have been featured in eighteen 
(18) articles of various newspapers in Korea, including "Maeil Business Newspaper (MK News)", 
"The Bell", "Aju Economy", "Asia Today", and "Korea Economy Daily (Hankyung)." The 
Petitioner submitted articles and translations and a screenshot from I University 
highlighting that Maeil Business Newspaper is a "Korean -language newspaper on Korean business 
and economy." 
In the request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated: 
The petitioner submitted 18 articles which either mentions his name or is about him 
and his work in the field. However, none of the articles contain an author; and not all 
of the articles are specifically about the petitioner and his work in the field. As noted 
in the regulation, the plain language of this criterion requires published material to 
contain a title, date, and an author; to be about the petitioner and his work in the field; 
and to be printed in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
USCIS does not consider articles which mentions the petitioner's name in passing to 
2 
be about him and his work in the field. Furthermore, please note that for each foreign 
language article, the petitioner must submit an English language translation that is full 
and complete. Summary translations are not acceptable. Finally, with respect to 
whether a publication qualifies as a professional or major trade publication, or other 
major media, a petitioner should identify the [publication's] circulation ( online or in 
print) and intended audience of the publication.[] This information must come from a 
reliable source and must reflect circulation statistics during the time period in which 
the published material was published. 
In response, the Petitioner provided revised translations for nine previously submitted articles and 
offered translations for five new articles. In addition, the Petitioner presented translations for 
circulation statistics from the Korean Audit Bureau of Certification for various publications, such as 
MK Economy, MK News, Asia Today, Economic Review, Korea Economic Daily, and Hankyung 
Business. Further, the Petitioner claimed that certain exhibits indicated the title, date, and author and 
"many other pages of the attached newspaper articles stated the title, date and an author of each article 
in similar forms." Moreover, the Petitioner asse1ied information from the World Policy Conference 
and Bloomberg, L.P. regardingMaei/ Business Newspaper (MK News) and Korea Economic Daily.1 
The Director repeated his statements in the RFE and determined that"neitherthe a1iiclesnorcounsel's 
list/RFE [] contains an author" and concluded thatthe Petitioner did not meet the criterion. On appeal, 
the Petitioner submits the same RFE documents and makes matching RFE arguments and asserts that 
he "provided the documentary evidence and information ... all of them with certified English language 
translations" showing the "[t]itle, date and name of the author of the newspaper a1iicles," "[ss ]entences 
in each article indicating that the article is specifically about [him]," and "[infonnation and documents 
regarding the prestige of the newspapers which featured [him] as major national media and their 
circulation numbers, from credible sources." 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate published material about him in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of 
the material, and any necessary translation. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(iii). 2 Further, any document 
in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language translation. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3 ). The translator must ce1iify that the English language translation is complete and 
accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. 
The record reflects that at initial filing the Petitioner submitted "Certificate of Accuracy" translations 
for each of the foreign language articles claiming "that all following translations of the entire parts or 
marked parts of the following documents are accurate and complete to the best of my knowledge." 
However, the translations only relate to "entire parts or marked parts" rather than "full English 
language translation[s]" as required under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Moreover, the translations appear 
to have added information that are not in the original documents; and therefore, they are not accurate 
descriptions and diminish their probative value. For instance, the translations include the media type 
and circulation data that are not reflected in the actual articles. Inconsistencies in the record must be 
1 Although he provided footnotes of website addresses to support his claims, the Petitioner did not submit documentaty 
evidence. 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html. 
3 
resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N 
Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). Because of these inconsistencies, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
that the translated material is accurate and supports his claims of published material about him relating 
to his work in the field. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not include the authors for four of the articles and did not include the 
authors and dates for two of the articles. 3 Further, while the translations claimed circulation numbers 
for the printed publications, the record reflects that all but three articles were posted on websites. Thus, 
the Petitioner must demonstrate that the websites represent major media rather than the printed 
publications. See, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 
(C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). Moreover, although two of the articles were published in Asia Today, the 
Petitioner did not submit documentary evidence to support the circulation claims in the translations 
and show how such data establishes professional or major trade or major media status. 4 The other 
article published in FN Times did not have any circulation statistic assertions, nor did the Petitioner 
offer any evidence of the publication's standing. 
Relating to the evidence presented in the RFE response, as indicated above, the Petitioner provided 
revised translations for nine previously submitted articles, translations for five new articles, and 
translations for circulation data for various publications. 5 Despite being informed in the Director's 
RFE regarding the submission of certified translations attesting to their accuracy and the translator's 
competency, the Petitioner offered translations without any certifications.6 Because the translations 
do not comply with 8 C.F.R. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b)(3), the Petitioner did not establish that the translated 
material is accurate and supports his claims of eligibility for this criterion. 7 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents the same documentation that he submitted in response to the 
Director's RFE, including uncertified translations for all of the documentation. Without properly 
certified and full English language translations, the Petitioner has not shown that the material is about 
3 Although the Director determined that the Petition er did not include authors for any of the articles, most of the translations 
list the reporter's name. The translations that did not include authors were posted on mk.co.krl l 20 1 7 J I 
2016, 12015, and 2015), and the articles that did not include the authors and dates were posted on 
a ward.koc.or.kr and sanghun.go.kr. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professionalormajortradepublications orin othermajormedia publications should establish that thecirculation(on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 The Petitioner did not provide revised translations for the six articles that did not include authors and/or dates. 
6 The Director's RFE stated: 
If you submit a document in any language other than English, the documentmust be accompanied by a 
full and complete English translation. The translatormust certifythatthe translation is accurate and he 
or she is competent to translate from that language to English. If you submit a foreign language 
translation in response to this request for evidence, you must also include a copy of the foreign language 
document. 
7 We note that regarding the previously submitted translated documents, the Petitioner attached a piece of paper stating 
that "[e]ach set of English documents in this Exhibit is a translation of its immediately following documents in Korean." 
However, the document does not identify the translator, certify thatthe translations are complete and accurate, and indicate 
that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language into English consistent with 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103 .2(b )(3). 
4 
him, occurred in professional or major trade publications or other major media, and includes the title, 
date, and author. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of fmal 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. See Matter of Price, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 202 l)(determiningthat 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. l 9-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one ofthemostfamous baseball players inKoreanhist01y" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance 
of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is 
consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59(Sept. 19, 1990);seealso section203(b)(l)(A)oftheAct. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, 
and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Although the Director determined that the 
Petitioner has served in a leading or critical role and received a high salary, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23078392 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a senior director, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
business. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten regulatory 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will sustain the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). While we do not discuss each piece of evidence individually, we have 
reviewed and considered each one. The Petitioner claimed he met six criteria, summarized below: 
• (iii), Published material about the foreign national in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in major media; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High salary or remuneration for services 
The Director found the Petitioner met the criteria relating to authorship of scholarly articles and 
performing in a leading or critical role, but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with 
published material about the foreign national, original contributions of major significance, display at 
artistic exhibitions or showcases, and high salary or remuneration. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets each of the criteria in which the Director found in the negative. We agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner satisfied the leading or critical role and the authorship of scholarly articles 
criteria. Additionally, we conclude that the Petitioner has also satisfied the high salary or remuneration 
criterion. 
2 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that his salary or remuneration is high 
relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field.1 The Petitioner provided his 2020 
W-2 statement showing that he earned $494,749. On the Form l-140A, the Petitioner describes his 
position as "[w]orks with companies on political & economic risk and market access overseas and 
assists with high-level commercial and political negotiations." The Petitioner's employer further 
described the Petitioner's work as "advising U.S. companies with investments in [Mexico and I I 
... to help them navigate sensitive cultural issues and assess risk in changing economic and political 
frameworks." His employer also stated that the Petitioner offers the media "commentary on matters 
related to land its commercial and diplomatic relations or with respect to the US-Mexico bilateral 
relationship and the complex issues it encompasses." 
The U.S. Department of Labor's (DOL) Occupational Outlook Handbook (Handbook) states that 
economists "evaluate economic issues for resources, goods, and services ... [r]esearch in economic 
issues ... [i]nterpret and forecast market trends ... [r]ecommend solutions to economic problems ... 
[and] [w]rite for academic journals or other media."2 The Handbook also states that: 
Economists working for corporations help managers and decisionmakers understand 
how the economy will affect their business. Specifically, economists may analyze 
issues ... to help a company maximize its profits ... Economists also work for 
international organizations, research firms, and think tanks, where they study and 
analyze a variety of economic issues. Their analyses and forecasts are frequently 
published in newspapers and journals. 
Based on the evidence provided, we agree that the Petitioner's position can be accurately described as 
an "economist."3 The record demonstrates that the Petitioner also has relevant experience in trade, 
politics, foreign policy, and diplomacy; however, this additional experience does not detract from or 
lessen his role as an economist at a private international organization. We conclude that the Petitioner 
provided sufficient evidence and analysis to support a finding that his position most closely 
approximates an "economist." 
The Petitioner provided evidence that his earnings were more than three times the amount of a Level 
IV economist's wage in the Petitioner's geographical area for the year 2020.4 Therefore, we conclude 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
2 The Handbook is an informative source on the duties and educational requirements of the wide variety of occupations. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Dep't of Labor, Occupational Outlook Handbook, may be accessed at 
https://www.bls.gov. We do not, however, maintain that the Handbook is the exclusive source of relevant information. 
3 In addition to "economist," the Petitioner's position also appears to have overlap with the Handbook occupation of 
"political scientist." However, the DOL's Foreign Labor Certification Online Wage Library reflects that the higher 
prevailing wage in the Petitioner's geographical area corresponds to the "economist" occupation. For more information, 
visit https://flcdatacenter.com/OESWizardStart.aspx. 
4 A wage determination starts with an entry-level wage (Level I) and progresses to a higher wage level (up to Level IV) 
after considering the experience, education, and skill requirements of the job opportunity. U.S. Dep't of Labor, Emp't & 
Training Admin., Prevailing Wage Determination Policy Guidance, Nonagric. Immigration Programs (rev. Nov. 2009), 
available at http://flcdatacenter.com/download/NPWHC_Guidance_Revised_11_2009.pdf. 
3 
that by a preponderance of the evidence, the Petitioner has established he meets the basic parameters 
of the evidence applicable to this criterion. 5 As the Petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements 
of at least three criteria, it is unnecessary that we discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to 
the regulatory provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Petitioner has submitted the requisite initial evidence. Accordingly, we will evaluate whether he 
has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he sustained national or international 
acclaim, is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits 
determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary abi I ity in the field of 
endeavor.6 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has sufficiently shown his eligibility. 
The Petitioner earned a bachelor's degree in foreign service from I u I University and a 
master's degree in public policy from University. He served as Mexico'sl I I for six years and prior to that, as Mexico's Consul General inl !Texas. The record reflects 
various media, such as The New Yorker and The Wall Street Journal, have consulted him for his 
perspective on trade and politics between the United States, Mexico, and I I The Petitioner 
provided testimonial letters from Mexico's former president, Felipe Calderon, a former Secretary of 
Foreign Affairs, and multiple retired high-ranking U.S. diplomats. The authors of the letters provided 
sufficient detail concerning his knowledge, experience, reputation, and skill in the field. They 
highlighted the success of various trade deals executed between I I and Mexico during the 
Petitioner's tenure as Mexico's,__ ______ and attributed these successful outcomes to the 
Petitioner's expertise. The Petitioner published articles concerning foreign policy, politics, and trade 
in media such as The Atlantic, Politico, and Foreign Policy Magazine, as well as a chapter in a book 
the Brookings Institute published. The evidence further reflects that the Petitioner spoke at 
conferences and events for well reputed organizations and universities. 
His employer describes him as a "highly esteemed authority on trade and diplomacy" and explained 
that he has "profound understanding ofl I foreign policy and trade relationships with the United 
States." His employer wrote that: 
[O]ur firm was able to secure important contracts with major I I multinational 
corporations. He has provided their leadership with a nuanced understanding of the 
5 The regulatory language requires that the salary must be high, or the remuneration must be significantly high in relation 
to others in the field. Whether the Petitioner's W-2 earnings are categorized as a straight salary or in terms of a base salary 
with bonuses, we conclude that the evidence supports a finding that the Petitioner earns a high salary or significantly high 
remuneration in relation to others in the field. 
6 See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See also 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence 
Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Adiudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM 
Update ADll-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010) (Policy Memo), https://www.uscis.gov/ legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating 
that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine 
if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant 
classification). 
4 
various cultural, regulatory, and communications challenges they face in the U.S. 
market and has been key in facilitating their multi-billion dollar investments in the 
logistics and tourism sectors in the United States, including in a Fortune 500 company. 
Accordingly, the evidence supports a finding that the Petitioner's personal and professional 
achievements rise to the level of a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress.7 Considering the Petitioner's ability and achievements, the level of his national and 
international acclaim, and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in the field, the 
record reflects that he has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage that has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. In addition, the totality of the evidence reflects that the 
Petitioner has sustained acclaim for many years and across employment in multiple positions. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner established that he meets at least three of the evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). He also demonstrated his sustained national and international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized through extensive documentation. Lastly, the Petitioner has 
shown that he intends to continue working in his area of expertise and that his work will substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. The Petitioner therefore qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is sustained. 
7 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 23041135 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Beneficiary, a product manager, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Beneficiary qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one­
time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
the petitioner must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary earned a doctoral degree in "real time, robotic, and automated informatics" from I I of Paris and currently serves as a product manager working on 
artificial intelligence projects for the Petitioner. While we do not discuss each piece of evidence, we 
have reviewed and considered each one. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The Petitioner initially claimed the Beneficiary met six 
criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; and 
• (viii), Performing a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations. 
The Director found the Beneficiary met the criteria relating to prizes or awards and to a leading or 
critical role for distinguished organizations, but that the Beneficiary had not satisfied the criteria 
associated with membership, published material, original contributions, or authorship of scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner does not assert that the Beneficiary is a member of an association 
2 
that requires outstanding achievements of its members, as judged by national or international experts.1 
However, the Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary meets each of the other criteria in which the 
Director found in the negative. Upon review, we agree with the Director that the Beneficiary has 
satisfied the prizes or awards and the leading or critical role criteria. Additionally, we conclude that 
the Beneficiary has also satisfied the authorship of scholarly articles criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) requires the "authorship of scholarly articles in the field, 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media."2 In general, it should have 
footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as 
illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article.3 For other fields, a scholarly article should be 
written for learned persons in the field. Learned persons include all persons having profound 
knowledge of a field.4 
The Petitioner provided evidence of numerous conferences and symposiums in which the Beneficiary 
participated. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) hosted most of the 
conferences and symposiums from content published in its digital library. The IEEE website states 
that it publishes research and is "a professional association for electronic engineering and electrical 
engineering." The Beneficiary's subfield of artificial intelligence (Al) and robotics is within the 
association's electronic and electrical engineering focus. Therefore, IEEE's published material could 
be considered a professional publication. Accordingly, the record suggests that the Petitioner meets 
the basic parameters applicable to evidence under this criterion. 
With eligibility under this additional criterion, the Beneficiary satisfied part one of this two-step 
adjudicative process. As the Beneficiary has met the initial evidence requirements of at least three 
criteria, it is unnecessary to discuss any additional eligibility claims relating to the regulatory 
provisions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner has submitted the requ1s1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether it has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and 
that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final 
merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
1 The AAO generally does not address issues that are not raised with specificity on appeal. Issues or claims that are not 
raised on appeal are deemed to be waived. 
2 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id at 9. 
4 Id. 
3 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor.5 In this matter, we determine that the Beneficiary has not shown his eligibility. 
The Beneficiary is a product manager based inl I Pennsylvania. He attained a master's degree 
in control systems from the University of I land a doctoral degree in real time, robotic, and 
automated informatics from the of Paris. He began his career 
working for where he contributed to the creation of two robots! J 
I I acquired and continued the commercialization of D The record reflects that universities and other researchers in the field utilize both 
to conduct further research. In addition, various retail, restaurant, airport, hospital, and hotel 
businesses use I I robots to improve their service. The Beneficiary co-founded a company, I lwhich develops commercial Al products that allow retail stores to automate certain service 
functions. Currently, the Beneficiary works for the Petitioner, a company focused on developing the 
Al systems used in self-driving cars. The Beneficiary garnered awards, performed in a leading critical 
role, and is a named inventor on at least five published patents. Media outlets have interviewed the 
Beneficiary about his company and the Al perception system he helped create. The record, however, 
does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's personal and professional achievements rise to a level of 
a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. 6 
The Petitioner provided evidence of two awards or prizes that satisfy criterion (i). The record reflects 
the Beneficiary received a 20161 I for the development of software building blocks to add 
smart features to connected devices. The French Ministry ofl I I I in partnership with a French public investment bank, finances I I which is a 
competition to promote the best research and development projects for the finalization of innovative 
technological products. Selected laureates for this competition "must have defined the concept of their 
product and be about to create a company, or have just created it." The laureates' academic level is 
high andl I estimates that over 90% of applicants studied five years or more and 40% hold a PhD. 
The record indicates that t the winners of the competition receive a cash subsidy in furtherance of their 
project. In 2016,L__Jselected 56 winners from among 347 candidates. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that in 2016, I I won a Digital Innovation competition 
award. The Commissariat General for Investment in conjunction with the Investment Program of the 
Future supervises the competition, which accepts applications continuously from companies based in 
France. The competition seeks to "accelerate and amplify developmental projects for innovative 
products or services based on digital technologies." The 2016 competition edition accepted 79 
5 See section 203(b){l){A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. See generally 
USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2 (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a 
preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise of the immigrant classification). 
6 H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
4 
proposals and awarded loans to 19 winners. The record reflects that the Beneficiary's company and 
two other companies received a loan in the category of _____ 
While we acknowledge these awards as meeting the basic parameters applicable to evidence under 
this criterion, the 2016 land Digital Innovations awards do not sufficiently reflect sustained 
national or international acclaim, that the Beneficiary is one of the small percentage at the very top of 
the Al and robotics field, or that his achievements have been recognized in this field. Rather, the 
awards appear to be for excellence in innovation and/or entrepreneurship. Although innovation and 
entrepreneurship may be byproducts of his work, the Beneficiary's claimed field of extraordinary 
ability is not innovation or entrepreneurship specifically. As such, the evidence does not sufficiently 
establish that he received an award commensurate with those among the top of his field. Furthermore, 
the record reflects that the Beneficiary won the awards in 2016 and in conjunction with founding his 
company. The record does not show that the Beneficiary won awards in the field of Al or robotics 
independent of creating a new startup, nor does the evidence sufficiently describe the specific technology 
or services the Beneficiary's company offers.7 
The Petitioner provided documentation of the Beneficiary's receipt of other awards. However, the record 
lacks sufficient evidence with which to establish how the awards meet the basic parameters of the 
criterion. To illustrate, the Petitioner submitted evidence of a tax-free tech-startup loan, which he 
received from I lfor winning a contest. The record includes evidence that in 2016, I !awarded a loan to seven startups in the month ofl !awarded the loans after 
contestants gave a one and half minute "pitch" of their idea. The documentation provided does not 
indicate how often I I awards loans (monthly, yearly, or otherwise), how many entrants or 
candidates it considers, or other entry requirement details. The competition appears to be open only 
to those in the Paris region and therefore the record does not demonstrate that thel loan is 
a nationally or internationally recognized award or prize. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary received a 2018 I I Retail Award;" 
however, the record does not include sufficient details about the award to draw any conclusions 
concerning the national or international recognition of it. The0Retail Award is a free competition 
for the purpose of identifying companies that offer solutions to issues that e-commerce, retailers, and 
brands face. It is unclear who the competition is open to, but the name suggests that it is open to those 
irl I The documentation does not indicate that the Beneficiary received the award for excellence 
in his field. 
Regarding media coverage, the Director explained that the published material must be about the 
Beneficiary and relate to his work in the field. Both the Director and the Petitioner acknowledged that 
some of the submitted articles lack dates and/or authors, which is a regulatory requirement. The 
Director noted that, "The articles in L'Usine (no author and no date of publication), 20 Minutes (no 
author and no date of publication), and Daily Mail (no publication date) do not meet the plain language 
7 We acknowledge that one of the letters of recommendation states that sells smart cameras to retailers. However, 
the Petitioner provided little other evidence to support this assertion. 
5 
of this criterion." Some of the articles do not meet the evidentiary criterion for additional reasons. 
The Director explained: 
[T[he article is attributed 
to CNN money with a publication date of 2016. However, there is no indication 
on the material that it was published in CNNmoney. It indicates that the article was 
printed from www.news.mit.edu. Also, there is no circulation data for this 
[(www.news.mit.edu)] news site, and no author or publication date is indicated on the 
material. 
The article in journaldunet.com is both about the Beneficiary and related to his work, as well as has a 
listed author and date. The Petitioner provided readership and circulation data for journaldunet.com, 
which ranks the news source at 512 in France and 14,700 worldwide. The data also includes 
journaldunet.com website traffic statistics. However, the Petitioner has not explained how the data 
shows journeldunet.com is a major medium, nor has it explained the source of the data. Similarly, the 
Petitioner provided readership and circulation data for many of the media outlets referenced; however, 
it is not apparent where this data came from, as there is no website listed or other indication of the 
data's source. In some cases, the data appears to be from the news source itself. However, USCIS 
need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 
SJO (C.D.C.A. July 6, 2007) aff'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that self-serving 
assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status is not reliant evidence of a major 
medium); see also, e.g., Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 3213788, at *8 
(C.D.C.A. Apr. 9, 2020). For many other news sources referenced, mostly websites, the Petitioner did 
not provide any information to support a finding that the sources are major media. 
Although the Petitioner provided some articles that mention the Beneficiary or his company, they do 
not appear to be about the Beneficiary and relating to his work in the field. For instance, the Business 
Insider France and the L 'Usine articles appear to be about tech startups, mentioning along 
with other companies. The Economist article ________________ 
contains two short paragraphs about retailers, merely mentions the company the Beneficiary co­
founded, and does not list an author. 
Many articles are about the commercial usage of the robots in various service industry 
contexts. For instance, the Director noted, the 2014 Reuters article! I 
is about the purchase of robots by Nescafe to sell 
coffee makers at electronic stores in Japan, and not about the Beneficiary and/or his work." The 
Petitioner acknowledges that it provided a sampling of articles related to the international and wide­
ranging use of the products the Beneficiary contributed to developing. These articles are not 
necessarily about the Beneficiary and relating to his work in the field. Articles that are not about the 
beneficiary do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-
ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not 
about the actor). 
Les Echos may be considered a major medium and the article it published has all the required 
regulatory elements. In addition, the content is also about the Beneficiary's company. However, the 
four-paragraph article interviews the Beneficiary's co-founder, not the Beneficiary. While the article 
6 
mentions the Beneficiary, the evidence overall is indicative neither of sustained acclaim nor of the 
Beneficiary's status as one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
The Petitioner emphasized that it submitted nearly fifty articles. While the Petitioner offered a 
significant volume of evidence, eligibility for the benefit sought is not determined by the quantity of 
evidence alone but also the quality. Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376 (citing Matter of E-M-, 20 l&N 
Dec. 77, 80 (Comm'r 1989)). The Petitioner bears the responsibility of ensuring that the record 
demonstrates how the Beneficiary qualifies for the requested benefit. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1361. We acknowledge the Petitioner's assertion that the Director ignored evidence. However, 
when USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it will 
not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it to 
address every piece of evidence the Petitioner presents. See Guaman-Loja v. Holder, 707 F.3d 119, 
123 (1st Cir. 2013) (citing Martinez v. INS, 970 F.2d 973, 976 (1st Cir.1992); see also Kazemzadeh v. 
U.S. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 (11th Cir. 2009); Casalena v. U.S. INS, 984 F.2d 105, 107 (4th 
Cir. 1993). 
As noted regarding scholarly articles, the record contains evidence of numerous conferences and 
symposiums in which the Beneficiary participated. IEEE hosted most of these conferences and 
symposiums based on content published in its digital library. The Beneficiary is a named author on 
the publications, most of which were published in 2008 and 2009, during which time the Beneficiary 
pursued his doctoral degree. The evidence does not suggest that the Beneficiary continues to publish 
or offer original research. Further, the Petitioner provided little information on what IEEE is and does, 
how it determines what it publishes, or the intended audience of the publications. 
In its request for evidence (RFE) response, the Petitioner quoted the USCIS Policy Manual for the 
assertion that "peer-reviewed presentations at academic symposia or peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals that have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working 
in the field ... may be probative of the significance of the person's contributions to the field of 
endeavor."8 Although the portion of the Policy Manual in which this appears relates to the criterion of 
original contributions of major significance, the Director nevertheless considered the Petitioner's 
assertion under the authorship of scholarly articles criterion.9 
The Petitioner offered evidence of the Beneficiary's 128 citations in Google Scholar. However, the 
record does not contain sufficient comparative evidence to establish the relative significance of this 
number of citations. In other words, it is not apparent that the Beneficiary's work has provoked 
widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field based upon 128 citations. 
Although articles mentioning I !received considerably more citations, the Petitioner has 
not offered sufficient evidence to explain whether the Beneficiary authored thel articles 
and whether they would be considered scholarly. Therefore, we cannot confer thel I 
citation history upon the Beneficiary in the context of the Beneficiary's authorship of scholarly 
articles. Regarding the Beneficiary's citation history as it pertains to the significance of his 
contributions to the field, the Director noted that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient "evidence to 
8 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 On appeal, the Petitioner pivots from away from its RFE position and criticizes the Director's decision for considering 
whether the articles provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field. 
7 
demonstrate that this number of citations is indicative of major significance in the Beneficiary's field." 
We similarly conclude that the Petitioner has offered insufficient comparative evidence to establish 
widespread commentary or notice from others in the field. 
Regarding contributions to the field, the Petitioner provided evidence of the Beneficiary's patents and 
that other researchers have built upon the systems he created. As the Director noted, the patents and 
other evidence support a finding of originality, but do not necessarily support a finding that his 
contributions were of major significance in the field. The Director explained that "[i]nnovative 
contributions that lead to commercial success for the employer are commendable, but are insufficient 
if they do not demonstrate that the contributions made a major impact in the field of endeavor as a 
whole." Although the Beneficiary's former employer may have sold hundreds or thousands of I I robots to various service industries internationally, such evidence demonstrates 
commercial success for the employer and a contribution to the service industry more than the 
Beneficiary's field. Even if the Petitioner had provided sufficiently detailed information regarding 
I Isales, it would not necessarily support a finding that the patented systems within the 
robots are available to the field as a whole. Even if we assume the patents' publication makes the 
underlying perception system within thel I available to the scientific community, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that the acclaim! !received can be conferred upon the 
Beneficiary such that his specific contributions are of major significance. 
The Petitioner provided various abstracts of other researchers who use thel I robots to 
conduct research. In addition, articles and letters of recommendation support the finding that others 
in the scientific community have built u on the technology. The record reflects that 
researchers may have purchased a ___ robot to use as the platform upon which they test 
their own systems. Although the record reflects that the Beneficiary contributed to the creation of the I robots, the evidence provided does not sufficiently connect the Beneficiary's specific 
contribution of the perception systems to the success of the robots. For instance, the majority if not 
all of media articles discussing I do not mention the Beneficiary or his perception 
system contribution specifically. While these articles are significant and probative, they do not 
sufficiently support a finding that the Beneficiary has risen to the very top of his field. Furthermore, 
the record does not sufficiently reflect that the Beneficiary has sustained acclaim as a result of the I !robots, as opposed to achieving a level of temporary acclaim. 
Similarly, although the robots may be the standard platform for an international robotics competition, 
the evidence suggests that the hosts selected I I because they offer tracking features 
useful in monitoring the contestants. It is not apparent that the Beneficiary's contribution to the 
technology within the robots has been of major significance in the field as a result of the competition 
selecting ltor its monitoring and tracking capabilities. 
Although the Petitioner provided basic evidence to establish the Beneficiary's eligibility under the 
criterion related to performing a leading or critical role within distinguished organizations or 
establishments, the Petitioner did not provide strong evidence of the distinguished reputation of 
The Petitioner provided evidence of I I size and reputation in 
the field, which the Director found sufficient to establish I I distinguished reputation. 
However, the record does not clearly reflect whether the Beneficiary worked for I I 
Rather, it appears that he worked tori I before _____ acquired it. 
8 
Therefore, evidence of I reputation cannot necessarily be conferred upon I I I I In addition, the Beneficiary's leading or critical role at one company during a limited period 
of employment does not sufficiently support a finding that he has sustained acclaim.10 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that the Beneficiary participated in a temporary working group which 
the French government initiated. Documentation about the group states that "[f]or two months, 
researchers, companies, start-ups and institutional players will come together to help define France's 
broad guidelines for artificial intelligence." The document reflects that the organizers of the group placed 
the Beneficiary as a member of a 23-person subgroup entitled the "national development of the ecosystem 
of French AT technologies suppliers and their use." The evidence does not indicate that the Beneficiary 
leads his subgroup, how the organizers selected the Beneficiary for participation, or how the Beneficiary 
contributed to the group. The document does not clearly reflect the total number of participants in the 
working group; however, the list is ten pages long, single spaced, and contains 17 subgroups.11 Although 
the French government's selection of the Beneficiary for participation in the working group demonstrates 
his expertise in Al, it does not sufficiently demonstrate that the Beneficiary is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In summary, the Beneficiary seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard.12 The Petitioner's 
evidence confirms the Beneficiary received attention from those in his field. However, considering the 
full measure of the Beneficiary's ability and achievements, the level of his national or international 
acclaim, and the extent to which his achievements have been recognized in the field, we conclude that the 
evidence is not indicative of a record of sustained acclaim. The Petitioner has not sufficiently documented 
how the Beneficiary has attained a level of expertise placing him among that small percentage that has 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa 
petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit 
sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden here. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 While we acknowledge the Petitioner's statement that the Beneficiary currently holds a leadership role, it is unclear 
when his leading or critical role began. The Petitioner must establish eligibility at the time of filing for the requested 
benefit. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). 
11 Some names appear more than once. Accordingly, a simple count of the names on the list does not necessarily reflect 
the number participants overall. In addition, although the Petitioner provided 10 pages of names, the page numbers do not 
appear to match. For instance. after the page "6 of 6," the pages continue as "7 of 6," "8 of 6," "9 of 6," and "10 of 6." 
We cannot determine what this means or whether the evidence represents the complete list of participants. 
12 Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24361397 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 16, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an industrial designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the arts. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center revoked the approval of the petition, concluding that the 
record did not establish that the Petitioner had won a major, internationally-recognized award in his 
field. 1 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will withdraw the Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent 
with the following analysis. 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may revoke the approval of a petition "at any 
time" for "good and sufficient cause." Section 205 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1155. USCIS may issue a 
notice of intent to revoke (NOIR) a petition's approval for good and sufficient cause if the unexplained 
and unrebutted record at the time of the notice's issuance would have warranted the petition's denial. 
Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. 450, 451 (BIA 1987). The NOIR provides the opportunity to submit 
evidence in support of the petition and in opposition to the alleged grounds for revocation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 205.2(b ). If the NOIR response does not rebut or resolve revocation grounds stated in the notice, 
USCIS properly revokes a petition's approval. Matter of Estime, 19 I&N Dec. at 451-52. 2 However, 
a revocation is not valid unless it is based on evidence contained in the record of proceedings. Id. 
1 On appeal, the Petitioner has provided a brief which may be relevant to his eligibility as of the time of filing, stating that 
his initial evidence demonstrates that he qualifies both with a one-time achievement and with documentation meeting three 
of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director is the more appropriate party to consider the impact of the 
appeal brief on the Petitioner 's eligibility , as we cannot adjudicate the appeal based on an incomplete record. 
2 The Director's decision states that they did not receive a response to their NOIR. On appeal, the Petitioner provides a 
shipping receipt indicating that they mailed the response to the wrong address. The full, original NOIR response is not 
present in the record. 
At this time, we are unable to address the merits of this case because the record is incomplete. The 
record indicates that the Petitioner originally submitted a 13-page brief and several supporting 
documents in support of his petition. However, the record lacks complete copies of these documents. 
Thus, we cannot determine whether the Director properly considered all the relevant evidence in the 
record or whether the record at the time of the revocation would have warranted the petition's denial. 
Id. at 452. The Director bears the responsibility of ensuring that the record is complete and contains 
all evidence that has been submitted by a petitioner or considered by USCIS in reaching its decision. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l); cf. Matter of Gibson, 16 I&N Dec. 58, 59 (BIA 1976). We will therefore 
withdraw the Director's decision and remand this matter. 
On remand, the Director should identify and incorporate any documents which may have been 
inadvertently omitted from the record of proceeding before reviewing the entire record and issuing a 
new decision. If the Director cannot supplement the record with the missing materials, they should 
issue a new NOIR, granting the Petitioner a reasonable opportunity to respond. Upon receipt of a 
timely response, the Director should review the entire record and enter a new decision. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12964814 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual effects artist and animator, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement of this classification through either 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the evidentiary criteria 
listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will withdraw the Director's 
decision and remand the matter for the entry of a new decision consistent with the following analysis. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Master of Fine Art deqree in animation froml !College of Art and 
Design in 2013, and has been employed withl I since 2015. He indicates that he 
intends to continue employment with this company in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet any of the 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets 
six of these evidentiary criteria. After reviewing the Director's decision and the evidence in the record, 
we conclude that the Director did not apply the plain language of two of the criteria per established 
agency policy, 1 and failed to consider evidence submitted in support of another criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence relating to two awards which he asserts that he received: 
I Finalist, D Annual Shorty Awards) I category .......-"'---------, I Silver, 2018 Marketing Awards_________ category .___ ______ ___. 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14. [page number] (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/po I icymanual/HTM L/Po I icyManual. htm I. 
2 
The evidence accompanying each of these awards consists of pages from the websites of each of the 
organizations, which include brief descriptions of the advertisements and a list of those whose names 
were submitted with the entries. The Petitioner appears on both I ists as a "CG artist." 
In his decision, the Director noted that the Petitioner was not the "sole recipient" of either award, and 
that they were "not the top awards bestowed to winners." However, neither of these are elements of 
this criterion, and the Director evaluated the evidence under this criterion as well as the standard 
applicable to a final merits determination. The plain language of this criterion requires that the 
Petitioner be a recipient of an award, that the award was granted for excellence in the Petitioner's field 
of endeavor, and that the award is recognized at the national or international level. 2 Therefore, on 
remand, the Director should reevaluate this evidence to determine whether the Petitioner was a 
recipient of an award, as well as whether any awards he received were for excellence in the field of 
computer graphics, visual effects and animation. If so, the Director should then determine whether 
any such awards are nationally or internationally recognized in the Petitioner's field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
As noted in the Director's decision, the record includes evidence of the Petitioner's work on 
advertising campaigns for well-known brands which appeared on television and other video media. 
In making his finding regarding this criterion, the Director cited to a federal district court decision, 
Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008), for the proposition 
that this criterion is limited to the visual arts. The Director then goes on to conclude that since the 
Petitioner "is not a visual artist and has not created tangible pieces of art that were on display at 
exhibitions or showcases," he does not meet the plain language of this criterion. We first note that 
despite the Director's statement, the nature of the Petitioner's work in computer graphics and 
animation is visual. More importantly, we disagree with the Director's interpretation that the plain 
language of the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists and those that produce 
tangible or physical art. The regulation requires only that the work displayed be a given petitioner's 
own work product and that the exhibition or showcase at which his or her work was displayed be 
artistic in nature. On remand, the Director should consider only these elements which appear in the 
plain language of the regulation in reviewing the evidence.3 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
In support of his claim to this criterion, the Petitioner submitted copies of his IRS Forms W-2 for the 
years of 2017 and 2018, earnings statements for several months in 2018 and 2019, a letter from 
president of I I and commercial and governmental salary surveys for 
occupations related to his.4 The letter, which the Petitioner asserts is from his certified public 
accountant, states that the author "anticipates" that the Petitioner's gross income in 2019 will be 
2 See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121 
3 See Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1121. 
4 The Petitioner also submitted his 2019 Form W-2 on appeal. 
3 
"between $145,000 and $155,000," an estimate which is "based on his current day rate of $700 per 
day." 
In his decision, the Director stated that he was "unable to decipher what [the Petitioner's] current 
annual salary [is] because we are unable to resolve the discrepancy in his annual and hourly wage 
figures as cited in [the letter from the president of I ~-" He bases this 
conclusion on a comparison of his own extrapolated annual salary based on the Petitioner's "day rate" 
cited in the letter to the estimated annual salary provided in this letter, and questions the validity of 
these estimates based upon the difference between them. The Director then states that this 
"discrepancy" between the two figures "may lead to a reevaluation of the reliability and sufficiency 
of the remaining evidence," and that such discrepancies must be resolved by independent objective 
evidence. Matter of Ho, 19 l&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). He adds that it "appeared" that the 
Petitioner received bonuses and other compensation in addition to his salary and "there are too many 
variables involved." 
We first note that, despite the Petitioner's claim, the letter from,___ _______ ___,does not 
identify the writer as an accountant or indicate the source of his knowledge of the Petitioner's or his 
company's financial position. Further, the figures stated in this letter are merely projections which 
are insufficient to establish the Petitioner's actual salary. Therefore, given the minimal probative value 
of this evidence, the Director should not have relied upon it to the exclusion of other, more probative 
evidence in the record. 
In addition, as noted by the Petitioner on appeal, the Director's calculation of the Petitioner's annual 
salary based upon the day rate stated in the letter is based upon the flawed assumption that he, as a 
contract worker, will receive this amount for every workday in a year. This assumption led to the 
finding of a discrepancy with the projected annual figures stated in the letter, and ultimately to the 
Director discounting more reliable evidence of the Petitioner's salary in the record. On remand, the 
Director should consider whether this more reliable evidence, including the earnings statements and 
IRS forms, establish that his salary is (or was) high in relation to others in his field. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet the initial evidence requirements for this 
classification, and thus did not conduct a final merits determination. If after review of the evidence 
consistent with the analysis provided above, the Director determines that the Petitioner meets the 
requisite three evidentiary criteria, he should then then consider the totality of the material provided 
in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. 
ORDER: The decision of the Director is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 12968384 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 17, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an illustration artist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement for the classification through his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of the evidentiary 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an artist who creates digital illustrations primarily for video games. His work has 
also been displayed in books featuring digital art as well as at exhibitions. He states that he intends to 
continue to create and display his digital illustrations in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to the display of his work at artistic exhibitions and his 
participation as a judge of the work of others in his field. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also 
meets the evidentiary criteria relating to his receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
awards and published material about him and his work in professional, major trade or other major 
media. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that he meets the initial evidentiary 
requirements for this classification, but has not established that he has enjoyed sustained national or 
international acclaim and is one of the small percentage at the top of his field. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The record includes several articles in which the Petitioner is mentioned, including interviews. In his 
decision, the Director found several issues with the material submitted. He stated that some were not 
1 Although the Petitioner initially claimed to also meet the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) relating to a leading or 
critical role for organizations having a distinguished reputation, he does not contest the Director's decision relating to this 
criterion on appeal or otherwise refer to it in his appeal brief. We will therefore consider this issue to be waived. See, e.g., 
Matter of M-A-S-. 24 l&N Dec. 762, 767 n. 2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
about the Petitioner, and that others appeared to have been published on biogs and websites and thus 
had "little probative value for meeting this criterion." However, while the Director pointed out 
concerns over the quality of such published material, such as the fact that it may not be edited and may 
reflect undisclosed bias, we note that the criterion does not directly address the issue of quality. If the 
material otherwise meets the elements of this criterion, the quality of the writing may be addressed 
along with the totality of the evidence in a final merits determination, if applicable. 
The Director also concluded that the English translations of foreign-language material in the record 
did not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3) as they were not accompanied by a 
certification as to their completeness and accuracy and to the translator's competence. However, we 
note that both the initial submission and the Petitioner's response to the Director's request for evidence 
(RFE) included such a certification with a list of the translated documents and the exhibit number 
under which they were submitted. On review, we find that this evidence meets the requirements of 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3), and we will therefore consider the translated material in our review. 
The Petitioner submitted an interview of him which appeared on the website gnn.gamer.com.tw dated 
I , ,I ?,014. The article lists an author, and interviews the Petitioner about art he completed for a 
game created forl [ 2 This material is therefore about him and his work in his field. Other 
interviews of the Petitioner concerning his work as a digital illustration artist appeared in the I I 
2010 issue of CG Art Style, and in thd lc2011) of Mars CG magazine. Other materials in 
the record are not about the Petitioner, as they were either written by him, do not mention his name or 
simply show his work without commentary or background about him. 
The record also includes information about the media in which these materials appeared. For the 
website gamer.com.tw, also referred to as Bahamut, the evidence includes references to its internet 
traffic and ranking by independent sources as one of the most visited websites in Taiwan, and the 
country's most popular gaming website. This evidence is sufficient to establish it as a major medium. 
However, the evidence regarding CG Art Style and Mars CG does not include such independent and 
verifiable evidence, or that they could otherwise qualify as professional or major trade publications. 
Although the Petitioner submitted additional evidence regarding CG Art Style on appeal, we will not 
consider that evidence, as this evidence was requested by the Director in his RFE. Where, as here, a 
petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given an opportunity to 
respond to that deficiency, the AAO will not accept evidence offered for the first time on appeal. See 
Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Therefore, based solely upon the interview of the Petitioner which was published on 
gamer.com.tw, we disagree with the Director and conclude that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that he served as one of two jury members for the "League of 
Legends 2014.__ ___________ __, Painting Competition" and one of seven professional 
2 We note that the article refers to the Petitioner as both c=J his artist name, and I I' an alias which is not 
explained in the record. However, photographs which accompany the article clearly show the Petitioner. 
3 
judges for the.__ _______ ___. Illustration Content in Taiwan" in 2015. We therefore agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner submitted evidence that his work was displayed at the following artistic exhibitions: 
• "Fantas Digital Art Exhibition,"~! ---~!Public Assembly Hall,I.___ _ __. 
• 
• 
• 1---------....---' Painting -Personal Illustration Exhibition," I I Museum of Art, 
1---.---------' Taiwan, June 29 to August 7, 2011 and._l ---------'------------'I. 
2011 
Digital Art Creation Exhibition,' Folklore Culture Museum, LJ 2013 
1-----'---=--. rt Exhibition,'! li\rt Gallery_,__ _ __. I I 2011 
Accordingly, we agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner meets this criterion. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As discussed above, the Petitioner has established that he meets the requisite three criteria, and 
therefore meets the initial evidentiary requirement for this classification. Although he also claims to 
meet a fourth criterion, relating to lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards, we 
need not consider whether he meets additional criteria. Rather, we will analyze the evidence of any 
prizes or awards received by the Petitioner together with the balance of the record in conducting a 
final merits determination. 
In a final merits determination, we examine and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine 
whether the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in 
the field through extensive documentation. Here, the Petitioner has not offered sufficient evidence 
that he meets that standard. 
Although the Petitioner did not provide detailed arguments related to the final merits determination in 
his appeal brief: we note that in his initial submission he focused on reference letters in the record 
from other artists. The first such letter was written bvl I who states that she holds leadership 
positions with several artistic associations in Taiwan. I I indicates that after viewing the 
Petitioner's exhibition at the I I Public Assembly Hall in 2013, she invited him to 
exhibit his work inl I She goes on to describe him as a "nationally famous illustration artist," 
and notes his participation as a judge of the work of others. However, the letter does not provide 
additional or detailed information about the Petitioner's acclaim as an artist beyond other evidence in 
the record, nor does it provide insight into how the Petitioner's work has elevated his standing in the 
field of illustration art. 
Another letter was submitted byl I general manager of~------~Contents 
Academy, a training center for computer graphics students. He explains that the Petitioner was invited 
4 
to work as an instructor at the academy for seven months, during which he became familiar with the 
Petitioner's work. I I also indicates that the Petitioner was a very popular instructor, and 
that he "has everything it takes to be a great animation artist." But he does not expand upon the 
"excellent achievement[ s ]" the Petitioner has already accomplished in his career, or indicate that his 
brief period as an instructor led to acclaim or elevated standing in the broader digital illustration field. 
Other reference letters in the record mention that the Petitioner's work was featured as the cover art 
for the hardcover version ofi I a collection of digital art published in 2010. I I one 
of the Petitioner's colleagues, states that this shows that "his work is highly rated among illustration 
experts." Although the record confirms that this art was selected from hundreds of others which appear 
in the book, these letters from the Petitioner's colleagues and employers do not show that this led to, 
or is indicative ot: national or international acclaim in the field. In addition, the record includes one 
review of this book and another forl I which also included examples of the Petitioner's work 
(although not on the cover.) These reviews generally praise the books and the quality of the art 
displayed in them, but do not single out the Petitioner's work or that of any of the hundreds of other 
artists whose work is displayed. 
As discussed above in relation to the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), the Petitioner's digital 
paintings have also been displayed in artistic exhibitions in galleries and museums. The evidence 
relating to these exhibitions includes photographs, information about the venues that hosted them, and 
media articles covering them. For the exhibition held at I I Public Assembly Hall id I 
this includes an article which was posted on two biogs and in Uni~ed Dail) News, which is described 
as a local newspaper. Similarly, the Petitioner's exhibition at th Folklore Culture Museum 
was covered in two articles published in thel !Daily News. However, the record does not include 
information about the circulation or readership of these publications, and thus does not show that these 
exhibitions received extensive national or international coverage or attention. Although the Petitioner 
did include some information about Artist ma=azine which indicates that it is distributed in Taiwan 
and abroad, the brief article regarding thd I Art Exhibition simply announces the dates of 
this exhibition and does not mention the Petitioner or his work. In addition, the evidence submitted 
regarding the venues where these exhibitions were held does not demonstrate that they were highly 
regarded or prestigious to the extent that the exhibition of the Petitioner's work in them would have 
brought him acclaim or recognition. For instance, we note that thel lgallery promotes itself 
as a free exhibition space for artists where they can "hold [their] own art exhibition show," and that 
thee=] Gallery is affiliated with an elementary school inl I 
Regarding the articles in the record which focused on the Petitioner more than the exhibitions in which 
his work appeared, we noted above that only one of these, published on the Bahamut website, appeared 
on a medium that was a professional, major trade or other major medium. That interview focused on 
his work which was created for the mobile gamel I and noted that he was one of six 
Taiwanese artists invited to create unique characters for the game. Another interview, published in 
the online ·magazine CG Art Style in 2010, presents his opinion on a wide range of topics related to 
digital artwork in games and as illustration art, as does a third interview published in Mars CG in 
2011. While all of these interviews show that there is a level of interest in the Petitioner and his work 
as an artist, this evidence does not show that that interest is widespread in the field of digital illustration 
art. 
5 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence of his receipt of an award in the I I Illustration 
Painting Competition" in 2018. The evidence indicates that this competition was organized by the 
Taiwan branch o_,__ ________________ ___.was limited to "creators" from certain 
Asian and Pacific island countries, and featured characters from a popular computer game. The 
Petitioner is listed as the recipient of the second place I I award for his entry, which 
included a prize of NTD 10,0003 and a hooded sweatshirt. The Petitioner notes on appeal that the 
Director referred to a completely different award in his decision, which related to an e-sports 
competition. While we agree that the Director improperly considered unrelated material not in the 
record, the Petitioner did not submit evidence that the award he received was considered prestigious 
or otherwise recognized in the illustration art field at the national or international level. Despite the 
Petitioner's claims, the fact that the competition was open to residents of several countries and was 
thus international in scope does not lead to the conclusion that the awards granted were prestigious 
and bestowed a high level of acclaim upon the recipients. In addition, the relatively small amount of 
the cash prize and the lack of evidence of recognition or mention of the competition beyond the 
organizer's website do not support such claims. 
The evidence in the record pertaining to the Petitioner's service as a judge in digital illustration 
competitions in 2014 and 2015 demonstrates that he is considered to be an expert in this field due to 
his many years of creating content for video games and the display of his work at the aforementioned 
exhibitions and in published collections. However, this evidence does not show that this participation 
as a judge is indicative of the requisite level of acclaim for the requested immigrant visa classification. 
The evidence regarding the contests shows that they were open to all ages and skill levels, so that the 
Petitioner judged the work of amateurs as opposed to that of primarily professional artists, and the 
record lacks evidence that these contests and their winners were recognized outside of the websites of 
the sponsoring organizations' websites to the broader field. 
Lastly, while the Petitioner did not assert his previous claim to the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), we note that he submitted reference letters describing his roles atl I 
.__ _______ _.and thel I Arts Association. Regarding his former position as head of 
the 2D art team for several video game projects,! I a former colleague, states that the 
Petitioner designed more than 50 characters for the game .__ ______ ~ _ ___.Online," and thus 
made a great contribution to the game which was well-received at an industry convention. But the 
record does not include evidence showing that the games to which the Petitioner contributed were 
highly regarded in terms of commercial performance or critical acclaim, or that the Petitioner was 
credited and recognized for playing an important part in their development. We note that the materials 
in the record which describe I Is success in developing video games refer to successes that 
occurred prior to the Petitioner's employment with the company, or refer to games to which I I 
letter does not state that the Petitioner contributed. 
As for thel O I Arts Association, a letter from I I chairman of the association's 
council, explains that the Petitioner served as the organization's executive supervisor from 2013 to 
2014, in which role he elected or removed other supervisors and approved their resignation, among 
Currently equivalent to approximately $350.00 per 
https://www.xe.com/currencyconverter/convert/? Amount= 1 0000&From=TWD&To=USD, accessed on Febrnary 12, 
2021. 
6 
other duties. The materials from the association's website indicate that it was active in 2015 and 2016 
in promoting art and artists by sponsoring exhibitions and other activities inl I While the 
Petitioner's invitation to serve in this role reflects a certain level of respect from his fellow artists, as 
well as his willingness to serve the local artistic community, the evidence does not show that this 
service brought him acclaim, or that the position is reserved for the small percentage of artists at the 
top of the field. 
Considered together, the evidence establishes that the Petitioner is a successful digital illustrator who 
is respected by his peers, but does not show that he has enjoyed sustained acclaim at the national or 
international level. In addition, although he has contributed to online games and his work as an 
illustrator has been exhibited in artistic venues and in print, the totality of the record does not establish 
that he has achieved an elevated standing among the very few at the top of his field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19936837 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 18, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a producer and journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner describes herself as a "Radio, Television, and Short Film producer, focusing primarily on 
journalism production." The Petitioner states that she has acted as a producer in Venezuela and, since 
2013, in the United States, in thel I area. Her work in the United States, discussed in more detail 
below, includes radio, television, and print work. A submitted article in the online news site La Nota 
Latina describes the Petitioner's "biggest project,! " as a "project ... to offer businesses, 
entrepreneurs, professionals and brands the possibility to promote themselves in a massive outlet." The 
record does not provide a more precise description of what I is, what it does, its format, or 
direct evidence of its activities. The Petitioner's "Letter of Intent to Continue Working as a Producer" 
does not mention! I 
The Petitioner holds 0-lB nonimmigrant status as an individual with extraordinary ability in the radio or 
television industry.1 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) records show thatl I I filed the nonimmigrant petition in 2014 to classify her as an 0-lB nonimmigrant.2 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she received two major, internationally recognized awards, 
specifically I I Awards I I. (She received the awards in 
2014, after her arrival in the United States, but the awarding entity is in Venezuela. Materials 
relating to the award do not identify the specific projects for which she received the awards.) The 
Director determined that the Petitioner had not established that these awards are major, internationally 
1 We acknowledge that 0-1 status relates to extraordinary ability. Though the prior approval of an 0-1 petition may be a 
relevant consideration in adjudicating an immigrant petition for a person with extraordinary ability, it is not determinative. 
Eligibility as an 0-1 nonimmigrant does not automatically establish eligibility for immigrant extraordinary ability 
classification. Moreover, the 0-1 nonimmigrant classification has different definitions and standards for persons in the 
arts and the motion picture and television industry when compared to the definition and standard set forth for the immigrant 
with extraordinary ability. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(3), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
2 Her 0-1 B non immigrant status did not authorize the Petitioner to work for any employer other than I I between 
2014 and 2017 (at which time she obtained broader employment authorization . See 8 C.F.R. § 274a.12(b )(13). In 2017, 
on Form G-325A, Biographic Information, the Petitioner identified __ as her only employer in the United States. 
Nevertheless, the present petition's record of proceeding does not contain any documentation froml or 
statements from its officials to establish how her work in the United States relates tol I 
2 
recognized awards, and the Petitioner does not pursue this claim on appeal. Because the Petitioner 
does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding this issue, we consider it to be abandoned. 3 We 
will discuss the awards further in the context oflesser awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Because the Petitioner has not shown that she received a major, internationally recognized award, she 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, pertaining to judging and display.4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other four claimed criteria. Upon review of 
the record, and as discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
those four remaining criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner initially claimed to satisfy this criterion through four awards: 
• 
• Award, Best Producer of the Year (2014); 
Award, Best Broadcaster of the Year (2014); 
• !Festival, Best Film Photography! I (2014); and 
• I Award, Best International Producer (2017). _________ 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not established that any of the awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized. On appeal, the Petitioner alleges no error regarding the award from the I I Festival. We address the other awards below. 
The Petitioner's evidence regarding the ________ Award consists of a letter from the 
president of the awarding entity, stating that the Petitioner won "[t]his unique award which recognizes 
the [Petitioner's] effort, popularity and excellence." The Petitioner asserts that this letter is, itself, the 
"award certificate"; there is no other evidence of the award in the record, nor any indication that such 
3 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att'y Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiff's claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
4 Because this proceeding has not reached a final merits determination, we need not discuss whether or not the Petitioner's 
activities relating to judging and artistic display rise to the level of sustained national or international acclaim. Such 
discussion would not change the outcome of the appeal. 
3 
other evidence exists. At the time of the Director's decision, the record contained no evidence of the 
award's significance. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits two short online articles ( each four to six sentences in length), published 
in 201 7, regarding the awards. The Petitioner does not explain why she did not submit these materials 
after the Director issued a request for evidence (RFE), specifically requesting evidence of the awards' 
significance. Where a petitioner has been put on notice of a deficiency in the evidence and has been given 
an opportunity to respond to that deficiency, we will not accept evidence offered for the first time on 
appeal. See Matter of Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764 (BIA 1988); Matter ofObaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533 
(BIA 1988). Furthermore, the two brief articles would have been material to the outcome of the appeal. 
The articles name some recipients of the award (not the Petitioner), but do not indicate that the award is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
The Petitioner documents her receipt oftwol I Awards in 2014, as described above, but 
initially she did not submit any independent, objective evidence to establish the national or international 
recognition of those awards. Instead, she submits letters from the president and other officials of the 
awarding entity and printouts from that entity's own website. These individuals attest that "[t]he is 
the most important award given internationally by Venezuela," but such statements alone do not constitute 
sufficient independent, objective evidence of the national or international significance of the award or 
pnze. 
In the RFE, the Director requested documentary evidence of the award's significance and recognition, 
and "[p]ublic announcement ... issued by the granting organization." In response, the Petitioner 
submitted further statements from officials of the awarding organization. However, the evidence in the 
record, consisting of statements from such officials and no other supporting evidence, is insufficient 
to establish the organization's distinguished reputation by a preponderance of the evidence. 
In terms of publicity and coverage, the Petitioner submitted printouts of two online articles, neither of 
which identifies its author. A 2016 article from La Nata Latina states: "With 61 years of history, the 
prestigious de Venezuela' debuts in the city of I with the 
Awards,' with the purpose of recognizing the work of Latino talent who live in the 
This wording implies that the pool of potential recipients is local rather than national or international. 
A 2017 article from El Universal announces that I will recognize national talent" at an 
awards gala inl !Venezuela, celebrating "50 years of the I The El Universal 
article also indicates that "[t]he I is the only Venezuelan award that belongs to the I an organization also said to include the Latin Gramm Golden Globe, 
and other well-known awards. But the record contains no evidence from the ort this 
claim, establish the significance of that membership, or even confirm the existence of the itself. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not sufficiently established the national or international 
recognition of the Award. The Director noted that it was not even clear that all the evidence relates 
to the same award, because some record materials refer to the and others to the I I I I Also, with regard to the length of time the award has existed, the 
reference to "61 years" in the 2016 article is not consistent with the reference to "50 years" in the 201 7 
article. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "[t]he I Award was founded or 11958" 
in Venezuela, but does not explain why an article from 2017 referred to the award's 50th anniversary. 
The Petitioner submits further news articles, dated between 2016 and 2018, to support the contention that 
"the _____ Awards ... [have] in fact received significant media attention at a national or 
international level." Even if we were to set aside concerns as to wh the Petitioner did not submit this 
evidence in response to the RFE, these articles all refer to the whereas the Petitioner's own 
award documentation refers consistently to the Although the Director had 
already raised this issue, the Petitioner, on appeal, does not address the issue or establish that these 
different terms refer to the same award. 
As explained above, the Petitioner has not established that her awards meet the regulatory requirements. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner initially claimed that she meets this criterion through her membership in three 
organizations in Venezuela: the Association of Venezuelan Journalists Overseas (APEVEX); the 
National Board of Journalists of Venezuela; and the Radio, Theater, Movies, TV and Related Workers 
Union of the State of Miranda. The Director concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that the 
organizations require outstanding achievements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner discusses her membership in only one association, APEVEX; she does not allege 
error in the Director's conclusions regarding the other claimed memberships. 
In a printout in the record, APEVEX' s own website describes the organization as a "trade union" that 
"represent[ s] the interests of our members and stimulate[ s] their professional growth in the United States." 
A letter from the president of APEVEX lists three "Membership Requirements": a college diploma, a 
resume, and evidence of at least three years of employment with a news organization. APEVEX' s articles 
of organization do not indicate that the organization exists to recognize the most accomplished individuals 
in the field, or that outstanding achievements are required for membership; rather, they state that 
"APEVEX will group together all Venezuelan journalists living in the United States and other countries 
who share the same goals and are willing to work to achieve them." 
Memberships in organizations that admit members based on education or experience, and trade unions 
that admit members based on occupation, are not qualifying memberships to meet the regulation. See 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that "experts in the field are 
responsible for choosing prospective members based on their qualifications and achievements in the 
field." Because the membership requirements are minimal (based on factors such as occupation, 
experience, and education) rather than necessarily outstanding achievements, information about who 
selects new members cannot show that APEVEX membership meets the regulatory requirements. 
The Petitioner has not shown that APEVEX requires outstanding achievements of its members. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 appendix. In determining whether an 
organization or establishment has a distinguished reputation, the relative size or longevity of an 
organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining factor. Rather, the organization or 
establishment must be recognized as having a distinguished reputation. Id. Merriam-Webster's online 
dictionary defines distinguished as "marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an 
eminent person."5 
The Petitioner initially asserted that she satisfies this criterion through her work for two employers in the 
I !Florida area. ecifically, she asserts that she "was responsible for the entire production of [a] 
talk show" for and she "is responsible for the production of all journalism content for" 
She later claimed a qualifying role for a thirdl I entity, 
The founder and president of __________ based in describes the company as 
"an Advertising Agency, dedicated to the elaboration of an International Magazine," also called 
I I The magazine published a one-page interview with the Petitioner in itsl I 
2016 issue. The Petitioner specifically cites this article as evidence of her leading or critical role with the 
magazine's publisher, but the article does not describe her role except to refer to her as a "Journalist." 
The first letter from the company president contained few details about the nature of the Petitioner's work 
for the company. In response to the RFE, he stated: 
[The Petitioner] has worked with me in multiple projects for the magazine as journalist 
and producer, writing, selling, covering and organizing events, managing social media, 
interviewing, among many other activities. . . . Among [her] key responsibilities ... are: 
talent scouting for interviews, interview conducting, writing and preparation; looking for 
possible clients and sponsors; organizing and executing all the events at the magazine, 
specially monthly cover parties to honor different personalities; covering city events and 
producing articles and photos; managing content for social media, producing posts and 
videos. 
The listed responsibilities appear to have only a small amount of overlap with the Petitioner's self­
described occupation as a "Radio, Television, and Short Film producer." We need not discuss the nature 
of the Petitioner's role in great detail, however, because the Petitioner has not established thatl I I I has a distinguished reputation. 
Prior to the appeal, a section of the record labeled"[ e ]vidence of distinguished 
reputation" consisted solely of a printout from the digital publishing platform! I showing the covers 
of several issues of the magazine. The printout documents the magazine's existence, but not the 
reputation of the organization that publishes it. The Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to indicate 
5 See https://www .merriam-webster.com/ dictionary/ distinguished. 
6 
that only accepts material from organizations with a distinguished reputation, or otherwise 
explained why the Issuu printout is evidence of a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner states, on appeal, "[w ]e respectfully submit . . . independent, objective evidence to 
document the eminence, distinction, and excellence ofl But the Petitioner does 
not say what this evidence is, or cite to any exhibit in the record. The founder's own claims about the 
company he established are, by definition, not "independent, objective evidence" of that company's 
distinguished reputation. The appellate brief includes the claim that I has been a mainstay in 
the advertising market since 1998," but the unsupported assertions of counsel do not constitute evidence. 
Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. at 534 n.2 ( citing Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 
(BIA 1980)). 
The vice president and general manager of I in I Florida, states that the 
Beneficiary produced I I and I (The record does not 
specify whether these were television or radio programs.) The official does not explain how the 
Petitioner's work on two programs was leading or critical for the studio at the organizational level, and 
the Petitioner submits no other information or evidence regarding the shows. 
The Petitioner submitted no independent evidence of the reputation of I in I I The 
Petitioner submits evidence about the larger I described as "a global 
enterprise" with television channels throughout Latin America. The Petitioner has not established 
whether the shows she produced aired throughout the I different territories, or only in 
the area wherel lis located. The record contains no statement from any 
official of the international organization, and no other evidence that the Petitioner performed in a leading 
and critical role for the entire organization. 
The general manager of in states that the Petitioner "worked for this company 
from January 16th 2015 to May 21st 2015 as the Producer of the entertainment show titled 
The network's founder and director states that the Petitioner's responsibilities ranged from "[ o ]rganizing 
weekly meetings with her team" and "[b]]eing TV host" to "[h]]andl[ing] the teleprompter" and "cover[ing] 
for camera operators." Whatever the importance of these activities to a particular program, the Petitioner 
has not established that I I is an organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. 
A web printout describes as comprising "more than 30 FM Radio Stations, with 
presence in South America, the Caribbean, Europe and now North America." The network is based in 
Venezuela, but the letter quoted above does not specify whetherl I was broadcast throughout 
the network or only its affiliate, nor does it establish that the Petitioner's role was leading or critical 
for the entire network. Because the background information relates to the entire network, it does not show 
that the !station where the Petitioner worked has a distinguished reputation in its own right. 
Apart from the organizations that the Petitioner specifically identifies, she also cites more general letters 
of support and recommendation from individuals who have worked with her in various capacities. The 
Petitioner does not say how these letters establish her leading or critical role with any specific organization 
or establishment with a distinguished reputation. Instead, the letters offer general praise for the 
Petitioner's talent and accomplishments. 
7 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this regulatory criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner states: "Because of her longstanding career as a producer, she has been recognized 
extensively in major nationally circulated newspapers and magazines." Despite the claim of "extensive" 
coverage, the Petitioner submits copies of only two articles, both from 2016. One article appeared in an 
online publication called La Nata Latina, the other in I I 
As noted above, is either an employer or client of the Petitioner (the exact 
nature of the relationship is unclear from the record). The interview in that company's magazine consists 
largely of biographical material and very general information about the Petitioner's past and ongoing 
work. The Petitioner does not provide circulation information forl I indicating 
that such information is unnecessary because it is a "trade journal," but the regulation specifically refers 
to "major trade publications." Although the word I is in the magazine's title, magazine 
covers reproduced in the record show the names of several cities, all in Southeast Florida, consistent with 
a regional rather than international publication. The record does not establish the existence of editions in 
other localities. In this respect, it is relevant that the magazine's editor claims that the "magazine ... [is] 
one of the favorites in South Florida." 
The article from La Nata Latina does not identify an author as the regulation requires. Furthermore, the 
regulation requires the published material to be about the Petitioner's "work in the field in which 
classification is sought." The Petitioner seeks, in her words, "classification as an Alien of Extraordinary 
Ability in the Arts as a Producer" ( emphasis in original), but the article refers to her as a "journalist," 
and the discussion of her work is limited to mention of I in terms so general that the nature 
of the project is difficult to discern. 
On appeal, the Petitioner devotes considerable attention to the reliability of SimilarWeb as a source of 
online readership data. But the SimilarWeb printout in the record does not support the Petitioner's claim 
that La Nata Latina is a major publication. It has a "Global Rank" of 639,905; a "Country Rank" of 
53,291 in Mexico (the country for which such data was provided); and a "Category Rank" of29,373. The 
Petitioner does not explain how these statistics support her claims. The Petitioner notes that the site 
received 79,700 visits in May 2017, but the Petitioner does not establish that this raw number is consistent 
with major media, particularly in light of what appear to be very low rankings, shown above. The printout 
the Petitioner submitted also indicates that most visitors to the site looked at only one page and left the 
site within 30 seconds. 
The Petitioner has not established that she has been the subject of coverage in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. 
8 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the recognition of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record minimally documents her work in Venezuela, and her work in 
the United States appears to have been limited to local Spanish-language media in the Miami area. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF B-D-C-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a testing and comm1ss10ning engineer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary. See Immigra!ion and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l l 53(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international' acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140,. Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. ( 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a brief~ arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review; we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the ali~n has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained· national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
r 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work 111 the area of 
extraordinary,ability, and 
(iii) the aiien'.s entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
·. United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for s·atisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioµer can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazar;an v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
· required number of crit~ria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCJS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner provides evidence of current employment at and 
1 Because he has not indicated or established that he has 
received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) .. In denying the petition, the Director found that 
the Petitioner did not fulfill any of the initial evidentiary criteria. , 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets six criteria, discussed below. We have reviewed 
all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien ·s receipt of lesser nationally or ;nternationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in the.field o.lendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 20f 5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner offered various certificate s of recognition, achievement , and participation from his 
previous employer s, such as a "Certificate of Recognition" from for "2008 Most Outstanding 
1 The documentation, in the form of paychecks and paystubs, does not show in what capacity the Petitioner is employed 
or whether he works in his field of expertise as a testing and commissioning engineer. 
2 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
Employee of the Year,"2 "Certificate of Achievement" from for 
"outstanding contribution and support to this organization," and a "Certificate of Participation" from 
for "participation in the construction of coal plans in Quezon." While 
the Petitioner offered evidence showing his receipt of certificates, he did demonstrate that they are 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field.3 · Here, he did 
-not show that his employer certificates are recognized by the overall field as awards for excellence. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that he satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the .fieldf?r which classffication is 
sought, which require outstanding achievements ol their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues_ that he meets this criterion based on membership with the 
In order to satisfy this criterion, membership in the association· 
must be based on being judged by recognized national or inteniation_al experts as having outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought.4 He submits a letter from 
who confirms the Petitioner's membership with and claims that "members of this 
society requires [sic] outstanding membership."5 However, did not include specific, 
detailed, and source-cited information supporting his assertion .. Moreover, according to previously 
offered screenshots from "[a]II persons whose names now appear in the roll of 
professional mechanical engineers, mechanical engineers, and certified plant mechanics ... or those 
who may hereafter be included therein upon registration and payment of the required fees shall 
automatically become members." Thus, automatic membership is bestowed on those who are in the 
profession, register, and pay the required fees, which are not indicative of outstanding 
achievements.6 In addition, the Petitioner did not establish that membership is judged by recognized 
national or international experts. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he fulfills 
~scr~rioo. ' 
( 
2 The record also contains a letter from CEO of confirming that the Petitioner received the 
company award, as well as t~e nomination criteria and screenshots from aagp.ph relating to background and history of 
the company. . . 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-000Y I, Evaluation (~/" Evidence Suhmilled with Certain Form l-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicat or·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADI 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. . ·· · · · 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted_ based tipon recognition of the individual 's distinguished achievements in original 
research). . . . . 
5 The Petitioner also provided a "Ce11ificate of Membership" from 
6 Id. at 7 (fin1ing that payment of a fee is not based on outstanding achievement in the field). 
3 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel. as a judge oft he work of 
others in the same or an allied.field of .specification for which class(fication is sought. 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitionei: claims to satisfy this criterion based on having "been invited, served and participated 
in the of 2011." In order to 
meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he participated in the judging of the work of others 
in the same or allied field of specialization. 7 Previously, the Petitioner submitted a "Certificate of 
Participation" from president of the student council for "for sharing [his] knowledge · 
on 2011at" ,2011. On 
appeal, the Petitioner provides a letter from "thank[ing] [him] for judging the Institute 
2011 at ." Here, the Petitioner's certificate 
and brief conflicts with the letter regarding whether'he judged at the 2011. 
Incon~istencies in the record must be resolved with independent, objective evidence pointing to 
where the truth lies .. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 1988). He did not present 
credible, supporting evidence establishing that he participated as a judge at the event. Unresolved 
material inconsistencies may lead to reevaluate the reliability and sufliciency of other evidence 
submitted in support of the requested immigration benefit. Id. Accordingly, the Petitioner did not 
establish that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fir:, scholarly. artistic. athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v),'a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably ini.pacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. · 
The Petitioner claims that "[ n ]umerous reference letters were submitted that provide contextual 
information about [his] significant contribution in his field." Specifically, the record reflects that he 
submitted three letters. who has an unidentified position at 
thanked the Petitioner for his "hard work and dedication." In addition, 
supervisor at indicated that the Petitioner "has shown 
an exceptional level of understanding and commitment to the construction process" and "is a 
dedicated professional who wins the respect of others through his hard work, integrity, and desire." 
Further, general manager at 
recommended the Petitioner "for any employment in the field of Testing Engineering" and "found 
that he is a self-driven person and full of initiatives. " · 1 
7 . . . 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
4 
.
Matter of B-D-C-
While t~e letters applaud the Petitioner's personal and job abilities, they do not identify original 
contributions that he has made to the field, nor do they explain how his contributions have been of 
major significance. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subs'equent work add value.8 On the other hand, letters 
that lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be 
probative evidence that may form the basis for meetii-1g this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need not 
accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756. Inc. v. The. US All )i..Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. 
Dist. 1990). , 
For these reasons, the Petitioner has not met his burden of showing that he has made original 
· contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that he qualifies for this criterion based on his previous employment with 
and The Petitioner references 
letters from and discussed above, as well as letters from 
and As it relates to a leading role, the evidence 
must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help 
to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 10 Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the 
outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but 
rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical.11 
Although the letters corifirm the Petitioner's employment, they do not demonstrate that he performed 
in a leading or critical role for any of the companies. For instance, ch~imed that "[t]here 
is no doubt that [the Petitioner] plays a significant role in our company," without further elaborating 
or supporting his asse,rtions. Moreover, although maintained that the Petitioner 
"contributed to the successful release of LED anchor mastheads underwater · lightning [sic] 
products," he~did not explain significance of the contribution to or how it demonstrates a 
leading or critical role. In addition, indicated that he served as an adviser and mentor to 
the Petitioner and "showed himself as a promising skilled Mechanical testing expert." However, 
did not provide detailed information showing how his role as a testing expert was leading or 
critical to Further, stated that the Petitioner "reported to him when he worked as a 
supervisor in the filter production clean room department" and increased production by 25% in the 
I 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supm, at 8-9. . 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, affd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an' individual's contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 · See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at I 0. · 1 
11 Id. 
5 r 
.
_, Matter of B-D-C~ 
department. While discussed the Petitioner's impact on the department, he did not show 
how the Petitioner contributed to the success or stat~ding of overall. Here, the letters do not 
establish that he held a leading position, and they do not contain specific information signifying that 
he was essential to any of the companies. 12 
In addition, the letters do not contain information demonstrating that or have a 
distinguished reputation.13 Moreover, although the P~titioner claims that the "companies are all 
reputable" and he provided screenshots from their websites, the record contains insufficient evidence 
to support his assertion. As such, the Petitioner did not show that the companies enjoy an ,eminent 
reputation. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other sign(ficantly high remuneration 
for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or 
other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field.14 He refer~nces a 
previously submitted letter from who indicated the Petitioner's salary was ¥5,500,000 
as a "Testing Engineer" and claimed that it"is I 0% beyond national coverage in Japan·." The record 
also contains a screenshot from payscale.com reflecting that the median wage for mechanical 
engineers in Japan is ¥3,916,083, with a salary range of ¥542,4 79 -¥8,721,506. 
The Petitioner, however, did not provide comparative wage data of other testing engineers, nor did 
he establish that testing engineers are similar to mechanical engineers consistent with the regulatory 
criterion's requirement of "in relation to others in the field." See Matter ol Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 
954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other PGA Tour 
golfers); see also Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL 
enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 
1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). Regardless, 
even considering the average wages of mechanical engineers in Japan, the Petitioner's wages are not 
at the higher end of the scale. Furthermore, the Petitioner did not establish that beinK "10% beyond 
. the national coverage in Japan" is indicative of a "high salary." As such, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that he meets this criterion. 
12 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). . 
13 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
14 See USC IS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005. I, supra; at I I. 
6 
·, 
Matter of]!-D-C-
IU. CONCLhlSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one~time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise· 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For 
the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofB-D-C-, ID# 2093436 (AAO Feb. 19; 2019) U.S. Citizenship 
and hp.migration 
Services 
MATTER OF L-D-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, an electrical engineer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in 
the sciences. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U .S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international ,acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
. The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form ·J-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional documentation and a briet: arguing that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraotdinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, busines1s, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work 111 the area of 
. extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability'' refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
.
A-fatter of L-D-
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets. forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does ncit submit this evidence, then· he or she 
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirem\;'.nts, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is ~mong the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 20 I 0) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v .. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(ial v. USC!S, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by·its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably trne." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a senior staff engineer at in California. 
Because he has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). In denying the petition, the Director' found that the Petitioner met only two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a peer reviewer of manuscripts for 
journals. In addition, he authored scholarly articles in professional publications. Accordingly, we 
agree with the Director that the Petitioner fulfilled the judging and scholarly articles criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets one additional criterion, discussed below. We have 
reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements ofat least three criteria. 
2 
.
Matter of L-D-
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Evidence, of the alien ·s original scientffic. scholarly. artistic. athletic. or business-related 
contributions o.f mc{jor significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. Here, we will address the Petitio11er's arguments on appeal and determine 
whether he has shown original contributions of major significance in the field consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
The Petitioner contends that he "has submitted evidence of numerous individual citations of his work 
that emphasize the major significance of his research." Specifically, the Petitioner generally 
references to his previously offered samples of research articles that cited to his work. For instance, 
the Petitioner provided a partial article entitled, 
in which the authors cited to his 2007 Journal 
of Applied Physics aiticle.1 However, the article does not distinguish the Petitioner's written work 
from the other 424 cited papers. Further, the sample articles do not show the significance of the 
Petitioner's research to the overall field beyond the authors who cited to his work.2 In the case here, 
the Petitioner has not shown that his published aiticles thrqugh citations rise to a level of "major 
significance" consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
Likewise, the Petitioner maintains that his "research was also acknowledged in a book chapter titled 
· and "the fact that these authors chose 
to dedicate so much attention to [the Petitioner's] work is a clear sign that his research is of major 
importance to the field at large." The record contains excerpts of the book chapter; however, the 
evidence does not support the Petitioner's assertion that the authors "dedicate[ d] so much attention" 
to his work. The passages provided by the Petitioner show that the authors devoted three sentences 
and used two figures in citing to his 2005 article; the book chapter is not about 
the Petitioner's written article of research. Regardless, the Petitioner has not established that a single 
book chapter, which cites to an article, is indicative of a contribution of major significance to the 
overall field. · ., 
1 Although we discuss a sample article, we have reviewed and considered eaci1 one. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of' Evidence Submilled with Certain Form /-140 
Petitions: Revisions lo the Adjudicator .'s Field Manual (AF!vl) Chapter 22.2, AF/vi Update ADI /-/4 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www .uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding 
a finding that a ballroom dancer ha.d not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her i111pact in the field as a 
whole). 
3 
.
Mq_tter of L-D-
In addition, the Petitioner argues that "leading researchers such as have 
repeatedly and significantly relied on his work in their own pioneering research studies." The 
Petitioner offered a recommendation letter from who indicated that he applied the 
Petitioner's research to four of his own studies. 3 For example, stated that "[m]y study 
is therefore a key point of reference for other electrical engineering researchers, and [the 
Petitioner's] research laid the foundation of my project," and "[ m ]y success in this regard owed 
greatly to [the Petitioner 's] previous research, since I applied his effective medium theory to my 
investigation." While · praises the Petitioner and credits him for assisting in his own 
research and work, he did not demonstrate how the Petitio11er's research has greatly impacted the 
overall field. 
, Further, the Petitioner contends that the Director improperly indicated his citations to other 
researchers and engineers who submitted recommendation letters on his behalf.4 Moreover, ·the 
Petitioner claims that the Director imposed a threshold number of total citations that is apparently 
required to demonstrate major significance . ln general, the comparison of the Petitioner's 
cumulative citations to others in the field is often more appropriate in determining whether the 
record shows sustained national or international ac.claim and demonstrates that he is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor in a final merits determination if the Director 
determined he· met at least three of the regulatory criteria. See Kazarian 596 F.3d0 at 1115. 
However, the comparison of citations to a particular scientific article may be relevant for this 
criterion in order to establish the field's general view of a contribution of major significance. 
Again, this criterion requires the Petitioner to establish that he has made original contributions of 
major significance in the field. Thus, the burden is on the Petitioner to identify his original 
contributions and explain why they are of major significance to the field. As the Petitioner has 
submitted evidence of his citation history from Google Scholar, he must show how those citations 
qualify as contributions of major significance. For instance, as indicated, the Petitioner presented 
evidence reflecting that his highest cited article received 121 citations at initial filing. In this case, 
however, the Petitioner did not articulate the significance orrelevance of that number. 5 Although his 
citations are indicative that his research has received some attention from the field, the Petitioner di<l 
n'ot demonstrate that this citation number reflects that his article has been majorly significant to the 
field.6 Generally, citations can serve as an indication that the field has tak~n interest in a petitioner's 
3 While we· address letter, we have reviewed and considered his other recommendation letters included in 
the record. 
4 For instance, the Director compared the Petitioner's citations (1,310 total citations and 121, 64, and 63 for his highest 
three cited articles) to (12,665 total citations and 1,368 for his highest citation article), 
(8,419 total citations and 832 for his highest cited aiticle ), and (21,459 total citations and 2,785 for 
his highest cited article). 
5 As discussed by the Director, the record appears to reflect that the Petitioner's' field contains articles that have been 
cited in the thousands . 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra. at 8-9 (providing an example that peer-reviewed articles in 
scholarly journals tha·t have provoked widespread commentary or received notice from others working in the field, or 
entries (particularly a goodly number) in a citation index which cite the individual's work as authoritative in the field, 
may be probative of the· significance of the person '_s contributions to the field of endeavor). 
4 
.
Matter of L-D-
work. The Petitioner, however, has not sufficiently identified the specific contributions he has made 
through his written work, nor has he shown that his citations for any of his published articles are 
commensurate with contributions of major significance. 
In addition, the Petitioner provided data from Clarivate Analytics regarding baseline citation rntes 
and percentiles by year of publication for various research fields. The Director found CA's 
information to be "out-of-date " and "highly skewed."7 On appeal, the Petitioner provides evidence 
showing that the data is updated bi-monthly and an email from a representative of CA who explained 
that "[t]he word skew simply describes a natural phenomenon of _citation distributions: a few papers 
receive many cites, whereas most papers receive few or no cites" and "[t]here is no 'thumb on the 
scale' here, no skew, no inflation of an individual researcher's credentials into the top 10 percentile 
or deflation out of the top IO percentile." Further, the Petitioner presents a document that appears to 
be self-compiled entitled "ln-Field Author Comparator" regarding to his citation count percentiles 
and paper count percentiles. The Petitioner claims that the data was .derived fro1,11 "Microsoft 
Research " and compares his research impact to that of other researchers in elect~ical engineering , 
microelectronics , and photonics . Specifically , the Petitioner asserts that "Microsoft Research data 
establishes that [he] is among the top 0.08% of researchers in the field in terms of citation impact 
and the top 0.05% of researchers in the field of research productivity." , 
The comparative ranking to baseline or average citation rates, however , does not automatically 
establish majorly significant contributions to the field. Moreover, as discussed, the comparison of 
the Petitioner's cumu)J:itive citations to others in the field is more relevant in a final merits 
determination. Again, the issue for this criterion is whether the Petitioner has made original 
contributions of niajor significance in the field rather than where his citation rates rank among others 
in his field. Here, a more appropriate analysis, for example, would be to compare the Petitioner 's 
citations to. other similarly ·, highly cited articles that the field views as having been of major 
significance, as well as factoring in other corroborating evidence. Publications and presentations are 
· not sufficient under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major 
significance:" See Kazarian v. USCIS. 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.-3d 
1115. 
Moreover, the Petitioner maintains that implemented his 
technology and references a letter from integrated photonics engineering manager, who 
indicated that the Petitioner -developed a silicon photonics platform , which later licensed, and 
claimed that "[b ]ecause of[the Petitioner's] research, we have been. able to transform the indu-stry of 
optical communication." Similarly , the Petitioner offered a letter from 
deputy executive director at the who also · stated that -the Petitioner 
contributed to the development of the silicon photonics platform and "this technology has been 
licensed to over a dozen companies across the world." While the Petitioner prese11ted evidence of 
7 According to the CA documentation submitted by the Petitioner. "[c)itation frequency is highly skewed, with many 
infrequently cited papers and relatively few highly cited papers, -Consequently, citation rates should not be interpreted as 
representing the central tendency of the distribution." 
( 
5 
Matter 9.f l-D-
· licensing payments, he did not show that his silicon photonics platform is viewed by the greater field 
. as a contribution of _major significance. The_ Petitioner's letters do not contain specific, detailed 
infonnation explaining the unusual influence or high impact the platform has had on the overall field 
without violating ariy confidentiality agreements. In addition to providing broad aue·stations, they do 
not show why it has been considered of such importance and how its impact on the field rises to the 
level required by this criterion. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions 
are of major significance ~o the field and its impact on subsequent work add· value. 8 On the other 
hand, letters that lack specifics ·and use hyperbolic l_anguage do not add value, and are not considered· 
to be probative evidence that m~y form the basis for meeting this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need 
not accept primarily conclusory statements. 1756. Inc.,;_ The U.S. A11)1 Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9,.15 
(D.C. Dist 1990). 
For the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made origi_nal contributions of major significance in the field. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Statu_s 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner- received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
-. nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior ·approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form I-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting. Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25· 
(D.D.C._ 2003); IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (O.O.C_. -1999); Fedin Bros. Co., 
. Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). 
Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant 
visa petition, is comparable to the relationship between ·a court of appeals and a district court. Even 
if a service center director has approved a nonimm_igrant petition on behalf of an individual,_ we are 
not bound to follow that finding in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana 
Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 11.19-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
. the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
8 • . . See USCIS Po]icy fV!emorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at I 036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the 
regulatory language but do not explain how an individuars contributions have already influenced the field are 
insufficient to establish original contributions of major significance in the fie I~)-
6_ 
Matter of l-D-
/ 
The Petitioner seeks a highly.restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields,1rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability"· standard. Matter <?f Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. IO 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate. that the 
Petitioner has garnered n·ational or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small 
percentage who has -risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the 
Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2): 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary abili.ty. · 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of L-D-, ID# 2091154 (AAO Feb. 19, 2019) 
. \ 
.., J U.S. Citizenship 
and· Immigration 
Services· 
MATTER OF A-R-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 19, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a pastry chet: seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had not submitted the required evidence for eligibility. 
• On appeal, the Petitioner submits additional evidence and asserts that the Director did not consider 
the documentation submitted and her decision did not explain the reasons for denying the petition. 
During the adjudication of the appeal, we issued the Petitioner a notice of intent to dismiss (NOID) 
· due to discrepancies regarding her previous employment experience. The Petitioner responded to 
the NOID, providing supporting documentation to rebut the information discussed therein. 
Upon de. nova review, we will remand the matter to the Director for further proceedings consistent 
with the following. · 
I. LAW < 
Section'203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or int~rnational 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to . enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien.'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively· the. 
United States. 
Matter of A-R-
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets fo1ih two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
such as awards, memberships, and published l'naterial in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we, then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazar;an v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013);.RUal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the ''truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of ~vidence alone but by it_s quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a pastry chef. As the record does not establish that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not establish eligibility as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not provide 
sufficient reasoning for· the denial even though the initial documentation submitted with the petition 
contained evidence pertaining to the following criteria: awards under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
leading role under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and salary under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
The Petitioner bears the burden to establish eligibility for any benefit, and each request must be 
properly completed and filed with all initial evidence required by applicable regulations or other 
instructions. · 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). · 1f the required initial evidence is ·submitted but does not 
. establish eligibility, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may deny the petition for 
•ineligibility, request more evidence, or issue a notice of intent to deny and provide an opportunity to 
respond'. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(8)(ii). Notably, the instructions for the Form 1-140 specify that a 
petitioner seeking to establish extraordinary ability must include evidence of a one-time achieve~ent 
2 
.
Matter of A-R-
or three of the criteria set forth at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), plus evidence of coming to ~he 
· United States to continue to work in his or her area of expertise.1 
Where a visa petition is denied based on a deficiency of proof, and the Director did not provide 
notice of the deficiency and offer a reasonable opportunity to address it before the denial, and the 
appeal contains additional evidence addressing the deficiency, then in the ordinary course of events 
we will remand to allow the Director to consider and address the new material. Matter of Soriano, 
19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988). Accordingly, we will remand the matter to the Director to 
consider the evidence submitted with the petition and the additional evidence submitted on appeal 
and in response to the NOID. 
As an additional matter, the Petitioner alleged that her employment as a. chef at the 
in demonstrated her leading role for an organization with a distinguished 
·, reputation under 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). The record contained a letter from 
identified as the general manager of this hotel, indicating that the Petitioner worked there as head 
chef in the pastry division from February 1, 1998, through December 31, 2002. However, in a recent 
overseas investigation, an officer contacted the manager of the who 
informed the officer that the Petitioner was never employed there and that the hotel has never 
employed an individual named as the general manager. We informed the 
I 
Petitioner of this derogatory information in a NOID and provided an oppo1iunity for her to ~ebut 
these claims. 
In response, the Petitioner submitted documentation to support her claim that she did work as a chef 
for the Accordingly, the Director should also consider the Petitioner's 
response to determine if it is sufficient to overcome the alleged misrepresentation. 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the foregoing reasons, we remand the matter to the Director to consider whether the Petitioner 
meets at least three of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). If the Petitioner meets three of 
these criteria, the Director must consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among ti1e small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596' F.3d 1115. 
ORDER: The decisi~n of the Director i$ withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a 
new decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
Cite as Matter of A-R-, ID# 1614058 (AAO Feb. 19, 2019) 
1 See https://www.uscis .gov/i-I 40 under "Instructions for Form 1-140." . ~--
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 06178689 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 20, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a biotechnologist in the field of immunology, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the record did not establish that the Petitioner met 
the initial evidence requirement of at least three of the evidentiary criteria. The Petitioner then 
submitted a combined motion to reopen and reconsider. Although the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirement, he did not find that the Petitioner established the 
requisite national or international acclaim, and standing in the overall field, to qualify as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider the entirety 
of the record in his final merits determination. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner obtained his Ph.D. in life and health sciences from the . .__ ________ .....,France 
with a specialization in immunology. The record indicates that he has performed research in the area 
of immunology, led research projects, and participated in and coordinated scientific workshops. 1 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to his service as a judge of the work of others, 
authorship of scholarly articles, and leading role for organizations having a distinguished reputation. 
Upon review, we agree that the record demonstrates that the Petitioner meets these three criteria. 
Specifically: 
• :de Director noted that ~e r:~i~:-~------.......,.--------.-------~--~ 
I J during his work as part of the'-----~ Project. We forth er note 
1 Although several reference letters indicate that the Petitioner founded a company in Venezuela, the record does not 
include documentary evidence regarding the company, its formation or its products or services. In addition, the Petitioner 
does not assert that his eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability is founded upon acclaim in the field of business or as 
an entrepreneur. 
2 
that the record establishes that he served on a doctoral thesis jury atl I University, 
and that he evaluated applications and papers for an award granted by the Ministry of the 
College Education, Science and Technology; .__ ______ ___, 
• The Petitioner has authored several papers which have been published in scholarly journals, 
and; 
• The Petitioner served as executive vice president of the I ~- ~----~ 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the evidentiary criterion relating to lesser natilonally I 
or internationally recognized awards, and that he also served in other leading or critical roles for 
which should also be considered to be qualifying for purposes of the criterion at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, because he has already established that he meets the requisite 
three evidentiary criteria, we will consider this evidence along with the totality of the record under the 
final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
We initially note that in conducting the final merits determination in his motion decision, the Director 
focused only on evidence related to those criteria which he had found that the Petitioner met. As noted 
by the Petitioner on appeal, USCIS policy states that all evidence in the record be considered under 
the final merits determination, independent of the evidentiary criteria analysis performed previously. 3 
We will therefore analyze the record according! y below. 4 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits new evidence and a brief in which he addresses the issue noted above 
and others. Regarding the new evidence of the Petitioner's activity as a judge of the work of others in 
his field, we note that this evidence postdates the filing of the petition in this matter. Eligibility must 
be established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(l), (12); Matter of Katigbak, 14 I&N Dec. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCTS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 Id. 
4 Although we have reviewed all of the evidence in the record, including the numerous reference letters submitted, not all 
of the evidence is mentioned in this decision. 
3 
45, 49 (Reg'l Comm'r 1971). A petition cannot be approved at a future date after the petitioner 
becomes eligible under a new set of facts. Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 17 5 (Comm'r 1998). 
That decision, citing Matter of Bardouille, 18 I&N Dec. 114 (BIA 1981 ), farther provides that USCIS 
cannot "consider facts that come into being only subsequent to the filing of a petition." Id. at 176. 
We will therefore not consider this new evidence in the final merits determination. 
In his appeal brief, the Petitioner stresses that the peer review work he comP._,..c;l.c..et;..;;.e..;;;.d....;;f;..;;.o.;c..r+-- ___ ___. 
mentioned by the Director in his motion decision, was for the government of.__ __ .,.. and thus that 
he has served as a judge for organizations both in and outside of his native Venezuela. 5 However, 
while we acknowledge that these organizations relied on the Petitioner's expertise to evaluate the work 
of others, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate that this work reflects acclaim for him on the 
national or international level. The certificates thanking the Petitioner for his work as an evaluator on 
the I I "Challenge on Scientific Investigation" do not provide information such as the 
number of evaluators involved, whether the projects evaluated were proposed by researchers in his 
field, and whether the Petitioner had responsibility for the final decision regarding the projects (such 
as whether they were fonded, received an award, etc.) Likewise, the letter from the Ministry of the 
.__ ______ _.College Education, Science and Technology regarding the National Award for 
Best Scientific, Technological and Innovation Work" similarly lacks such information, nor does it 
appear elsewhere in the record. 
As the Director notes in his decision, the evidence of the Petitioner's participation as a judge of the 
work of others does not set him apart from others performing similar duties. The Petitioner asserts 
that the quality of the institutions where he served as a judge should also be taken into consideration 
as placing him at the top of his field, and refers to evidence in the record from the website ofl7 as 
well as media that mentions this institution. But this evidence does not show that I I o~ I I University are independently considered to be prestigious institutions at the national or 
international level. More importantly, it does not establish that the Petitioner's role as a peer reviewer 
and as a panelist on a single doctoral thesis committee for these institutions, respectively, are indicative 
of or garnered him sustained national or international acclaim. 
Beyond his roles as an evaluator and reviewer for several rgani1ations, the Director acknowledged 
the Petitioner's leading role as Executive Vice President of On appeal, the Petitioner stresses 
that he also performed in other important roles forl l including his work in coordinating the 
institution' p--immpnoproduction laboratory, and establishing the I I I I or L__J However, we note that while his title and work as Executive Vice President is 
~rted by a legal announcement and an office memo, the evidence regarding his other roles at 
L__J does not include documentary evidence to support the statements includs· nee letters. 
The Petitioner refers to two reference letters, one from I I oft University 
ofl I (Argentina) and another from'----------~ of the University of 
Ecuador, which describe I I as having "an infrastructure of 2000 m2 and an investment of US 
$3,950,000.00" and note that this facility was "devoted to the.__ _________ ~molecules 
useful for the development of diagnostic kits."6 However, neither of these writers indicates that they 
~ I located in Ecuador, whild._ ___ ___.~ University is in Venezuela. 
6 We note that other reference letter~ecord include similar language, but also do not provide further detail regarding 
the Petitioner's role in coordinatingl__J 
4 
worked with the Petitioner atl I and the letters do not provide detail regarding the Petitioner's 
duties and role withl I or the product of his efforts while in that role. In addition, we note that 
while the Petitioner provided some information aboutl I from two Venezuelan government 
websites, none of this material mentions! lor provides further information about its objectives or 
accomplishments. 
A review of the materials regarding the Petitioner's work with the Venezuela~ I I I andl I provides some detail Jegardrg his work with these organizations. The 
evidence indicates that he conducted r~h fo as part of a study concerning Venezuela's 
biotechnology sector and its role in L_J security, which was sponsored by the Venezuelan 
overnment. In this role, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner served as coordinator of the 
.......... -------~---.----w'-'--h_;ic;_h_1_·n-'c_lu'-'-d'-'-e"--'d;.;....;;...,subprojects. However, the report on this project lists 
him as a member of the '.__ _______ __. Analysis Team," and the acknowledgments section 
refers to him as one of eight "advisers and researchers." While the Petitioner clearly played an 
important part in this research project, the evidence does not establish that he played an equally 
prominent role for D overall. 
Regarding the Petitioner's work atl I the evidence shows that through the I I Program 
conducted at I lthe Petitioner served as both a researcher and teacher to aid in the development of 
detection methods forl !brucellosis. In addition, the evidence indicates that he participated as a 
lecturer at two conferences devoted to veterinary science as a part of this project, as well as at a science 
and technology conference and contributed to the development of a master's degree program in plant 
biotechnology at the institution. He also served as a peer reviewer during this time, as noted above. 
However, while the Petitioner appears to have played an important role in these particular projects, 
the evidence does not establish that during the year-long duration of his work with thel I 
Project at D these roles were leading or critical for the organization overall, or that the results of 
these efforts led to wides read recognition in the field of immunology. We note that a reference letter 
from.__ __ ____,.---.------' of the I I University of Chile, who worked with the Petition~ 
same project at , indicates that it "produced interesting results for the Universidad de lasL__J 
I ID and i grord-breaking study in Ecuador," but does not provide further details 
regarding its impact to or the broader field of immunology in Ecuador and beyond. 
Turning to the publication of his research and its impact on the overall field of immunology, the 
Petitioner focuses on research he conducted early in his career during his doctoral studies and post­
doctoral research at the I I Specifically, he refers to an article he co-authored which 
was published in the Journal of Immunology in 1998, and points to evidence of the ranking of this 
journal in the field of immunology. In addition, he highlights two letters initially submitted in response 
to the Director's request for evidence. 
The first letter was the second written ~yl ,I in which he states that he first met the 
Petitioner in 1993 at thel. He identifies two published papers written by the Petitioner, 
the 1998 paper noted above and another published in the journal Experimental Parasitology in 1995, 
both focusing on a particular parasite. I I notes that in both cases, other researchers 
have cited to these papers in their own work, and that "this has allowed for the field to further advance." 
While he provides specific examples of other researchers' papers which have referenced these works, 
5 
he does not explain how this work has advanced the science of immunology, or in what way those 
other researchers used the Petitioner's work in their own. 
Similarly,..,..,_-,--....,......,._-,----------,--....,,......-~ of thel !university of Venezuela also focuses on the 
paper published in the Journal of Immunology, writing that it "has been frequently cited by several 
authors." He further states that it "proposed numerous models which have been addressed in several 
undergraduate and fraduate theses which directly or indirectly [the Petitioner] has been involved." I _ states in conclusion that "with the proper conditions [the Petitioner] would be one 
of the most active and productive researchers in the immunology area." 
These letters state generally that the papers mentioned have been referenced by other researchers, 
which is supported by evidence in the record from Google Scholar showing the number of citations to 
the Petitioner's published work. However, this evidence does not demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
body of work in this area has impacted the field of immunology to the extent that it places him among 
those at the top of this field, as is acknowledged inl I concluding statement. Further, 
while a reference letter from I I goes into further detail about the early work done by the 
Petitioner which focuses on the parasite I t, he writes that as a result the Petitioner 
"has obtained recognition within his circle of immediate collaborators," as opposed to acclaim at a 
national or international level. 
In addition, while we acknowledge that the evidence shows that the Journal of Immunology is a well­
ranked journal in the field, we will not assume that every paper published in such a journal will 
necessarily have an impact on the field. Rather, we look to evidence of reaction to the paper by the 
scientific community. As indicated above, the Petitioner's paper which was published in this journal 
has been referenced by other researchers in the field on dozens of occasions, as have his papers 
published in other scientific journals. But the evidence does not establish that the quantity or quality 
of references to the Petitioner's work, or the reaction to that work as stated in the reference letters 
submitted, places him at the top of his field. 
The Petitioner also asserts on appeal that the I I Medal he received from the governor of the 
Venezuelan I I for his work on the team responsible for attempting to recover the 
remains o±1 I, is comparable to the National Medal of Science in the United States. 
As noted by the Director, the record includes several media articles about this project, some of which 
mention the Petitioner or interview him. However, none of these articles mention the I I 
Medal, thus detracting from the Petitioner's assertion regarding the stature of this award and any 
acclaim which he may have garnered as an awardee. Further, the evidence indicates that the medal 
was not intended to recognize achievement in the Petitioner's field of immunology, but rather "as a 
designated tribute to highlights historians, writers, journalists, plastic artists and Venezuelan 
musicians" who worked to preserve and disseminate knowledge regarding.__ _______ ____. 
While the Petitioner's work on this project gained him some notoriety in Venezuela, as evidenced by 
the articles published in major newspapers in his home country, the record does not show that this led 
to sustained acclaim in the field of immunology. 
The record demonstrates that the Petitioner was a productive researcher in the field of immunology in 
his early career, and later shifted his focus to the administration and management of research projects. 
Indeed, several of the reference letters submitted highlight his work as a manager, as well as his 
6 
participation in conferences and workshops at the international level and his founding of a Venezuelan 
company in the biotechnology sector. However, the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has 
achieved national or international acclaim as a researcher in the field of immunology, or as a science 
administrator or biotechnology entrepreneur. We therefore find that he has not established eligibility 
as an alien of extraordinary ability. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or documents 
that meet at least three of the ten criteria, and we therefore conducted the final merits analysis 
referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Upon a thorough review of the record and analysis as 
described above, we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. For the reasons discussed above, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate 
basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6287597 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 20, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a travel agent, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
We dismissed the Petitioner's appeal from that decision. The matter is now before us on a combined 
motion to reopen and reconsider. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss both motions. 
I. MOTION REQUIREMENTS 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be proved in the reopened proceeding and be supported 
by affidavits or other documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider must 
state the reasons for reconsideration and establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence 
of record at the time of the initial decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). A motion that does not meet 
applicable requirements shall be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Under the above regulations, a motion to reopen is based on documentary evidence of new facts, and 
a motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect application of law or policy. We may grant a motion 
that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
II. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
III. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
The Petitioner owns and operates a travel agency in the Republic of Georgia. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The 
Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; and 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments. 
2 
We concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the three claimed criteria. On motion, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the three claimed criteria. After reviewing the arguments and 
evidence on motion, we conclude that he has not met any of them. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner's travel agency was a finalist for a Welcome to Georgia National Tourism Award in 
the category of Best~--------~ We concluded that this recognition was deficient for 
several reasons: 
• The Petitioner himself: rather than his employer, must receive prizes or awards; 
• As a finalist, the travel agency did not actually receive any prize or award; and 
• The Petitioner did not establish that the Welcome to Georgia National Tourism Award is 
nationally or internationally recognized. 
On motion, the Petitioner documents that he is the sole shareholder of the travel agency, and he asserts 
that he is therefore the de facto recipient of any honors accorded to the business. The Petitioner 
submits a new letter from the award's founder, which duplicates a previous letter and adds a new 
passage indicating that, as the travel agency's owner, the Petitioner was "consequentially ... a finalist 
in the~--------~ award category." There is some merit to this assertion, but the other 
deficiencies remain. 
The Petitioner contends that the founder's letter also establishes that the company's finalist status is 
essentially a prize or award in its own right, but the letter does not address this point. The founder 
discusses the purpose of the award, and the judging process, but does not show that nomination as a 
finalist is, itself: a prize or award. 
Also, the Petitioner's submission on motion does not establish that nomination as a finalist is 
nationally or internationally recognized. Statements from officials of the awarding entity are not 
evidence of recognition outside of that entity, and government fonding or sponsorship does not 
inherently convey such recognition. 
The Petitioner has not established that his travel agency's nomination for a Welcome to Georgia award 
constitutes receipt of a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner previously submitted an article from the website of Georgian Journal. Georgia Today 
ran the same article, citing Georgian Journal as the source. We cited a number of deficiencies: 
3 
• The article briefly mentions the Petitioner, but is not about him as the regulation requires; 
• The article did not identify the author, as required; and 
• The Petitioner submitted statistics regarding the two websites, but did provide context to show 
that those websites constitute professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On motion, the Petitioner states that "he is currently awaiting a response from ... the Senior Media 
Consultant" regarding the authorship of the article. The Petitioner does not name the organization that 
employs "the Senior Media Consultant." 
The Petitioner does not address the other issues outlined above, and therefore neither overcomes them 
nor shows our prior conclusions to have been in error. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner had previously indicated that he performed in a leading or critical role for I lTours 
by creating "a partnership in Crete that allowed! I Tours access to Georgia" and by organizing 
a tour of Crete for "different VIP Travel Agencies from Georgia." We determined that the Petitioner 
had not established that his role was leading or critical. For instance, he did not "show how his 
organized tour contributed to the successes ofi !Tours or resulted in increased visitors." We 
also concluded that the Petitioner did not show "thatl IT ours enjoys a distinguished reputation." 
On motion, the Petitioner submits letters signed by four different travel agents. Three of the letters 
are identical, even including the same typographical errors (such as "their" instead of "there"). The 
letters were clearly not written independently, and we conclude that the true author of the letters was 
the Petitioner or someone acting on his behalf 1 These letters included the phrases "critical role" and 
"distinguished reputation," but simply repeating the language of the statute or regulations does not 
suffice to meet the Petitioner's burden of proof 2 
The fourth letter, fromOGeorgia, describes that travel agency but does not mention the Petitioner 
orl I Tours. The Petitioner does not explain how this letter establishes that he played a leading 
or critical role forl I Tours. 
The Petitioner has not overcome our prior determinations regarding any of the three previously 
claimed criteria for extraordinary ability. 
1 The use of identical language across various letters or affidavits from supposedly different sources can indicate that the 
asseitions in these documents are not credible. See Surinder Singh v. BIA, 438 F.3d 145, 148 (2d Cir. 2006) (upholding 
an adverse credibility determination in asylum proceedings based in pati on the similarity of the affidavits); see also Mei 
Chai Ye v. U.S. Dep 't. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( concluding that an immigration judge may reasonably 
infer that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
2 See Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), aff'd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990); Avyr 
Assocs .. Inc. v. Meissner. 1997 WL 188942 at *5 (S.D.N.Y.). 
4 
B. Supplemental Evidence 
The Petitioner filed the combined motion on May 20, 2019. More than a month later, the Petitioner 
submitted additional evidence in the form of a letter from a Georgian publisher; a letter from the 
Georgian National Tourism Administration; and messages and invoices from a travel agency in 
Greece. 
We cannot accept or consider this supplemental submission. A motion to reopen must be complete at 
the time of filing. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(2)(vii) permits a petitioner to supplement an 
appeal after filing it, but there is no parallel provision for motions to reopen. 
Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, reflects these requirements. Part 2, line 1, of that form 
includes several options for parties filing an appeal or motion. Line 1 breads: "I am filing an appeal 
to the AAO [Administrative Appeals Office]. My brief and/or additional evidence will be submitted 
to the AAO within 30 calendar days of filing the appeal." There is no comparable option to allow a 
petitioner to file a motion and then supplement the motion at a later date. Instead, lines ld and lfboth 
indicate: "My brief and/or additional evidence is attached." The instructions to Form I-290B likewise 
indicate that any new evidence must accompany the motion. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed, the Petitioner has not shown proper cause for reopening or reconsideration 
and has not overcome the grounds for dismissal of the appeal. The motion to reopen and motion to 
reconsider will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 20, 2024 In Re: 29836794 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a self-described life coach and motivational leader who seeks classification as an alien 
ofextraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that they received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did they demonstrate that they met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the 
appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner characterizes his claimed abilities as a life coach, motivational leader, and business and 
organizational advisor. Within the appeal, it appears the Petitioner has resubmitted the documentary 
evidence that was already part of the record before the Director, and essentially presents the same 
arguments as those within the previous proceeding. While the Petitioner expresses disagreement with 
the Director's determinations, the appeal brieflacks details explaining how they are eligible instead 
of simply that the Director was incorrect. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met five of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied one of the criteria relating to: a leading or critical 
role, but he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or awards, published material, original 
contributions, or authorship of scholarly articles. 1 On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets 
the evidentiary criteria he previously claimed. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude he has not demonstrated he meets at least three of the regulatory criteria. 
We begin with the Petitioner's broad claim that the Director did not give sufficient weight to advisory 
statements from a claimed expert who opines that the Petitioner appears to satisfy at least five of the 
regulatory criteria and is qualified for this classification. While we will consider all evidence in the 
record and attribute to it the appropriate evidentiary weight, the final determination of whether 
1 It appears the Director did not discuss the Petitioner's eligibility under the original contributions criterion even though 
he asserted those claims both in the initial filing and in response to the Director's request for evidence. 
2 
evidence satisfies the requirements of a regulation or meets the burden of proof lies with USCIS. See 
Matter of Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm'r 1988) (finding that the appropriate 
entity to determine eligibility is USCIS); see also Matter ofSkirball Cultural Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 
806 (2012) ( citing Matter ofCaron International for the same prospect). 
Documentation ofthe alien's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field ofendeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided the same titled accolade he received in 2010 and 2011; the title of Speaker of 
the Year from the~--------------~· The Director determined the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion. On appeal the Petitioner contends the Director did not 
sufficiently consider his evidenrc~e_r~e_la~t_in~~to......_ __...,.a~s~w~e_ll~a=s~a~te~s~t1_· m_o~n_i~a~l_le~t~te~r_fi_r~om__,'----------'I 
an Assistant Professor of theI I ~-------------~ 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all ofwhich must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language ofthe regulation the evidence must establish: (1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. Appropriate 
lines of inquiry under this criterion include the number of awardees, the criteria by which awardees 
are selected, the selection process itself: the entity that granted the award, and evidence that addresses 
the reputation of the award within the field. As the regulation specifies that the awards must be for 
excellence in the field of endeavor, it is reasonable for the Service to require evidence that the award 
is merit-based, which discounts evidence showing mere participation in the field. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 
558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 182-83 (D.N.J. 2021). 
The Petitioner provided certificates reflecting he was named as the recipient of these accolades. In 
support of the requirement that these accolades are nationally or internationally recognized, the 
Petitioner offered information from I I However, it lacked any reference to the accolades the 
Petitioner received in 2010 or 2011. The organization identified two certifications it issues, and those 
consisted of Company or Entrepreneur of the Year, and Member Certificate. Neither of these 
certifications are the accolade the Petitioner received. 
Indeed, the Petitioner offered coverage of this accolade that another person received in 2018, and this 
coverage appeared on a website,! I. The Petitioner, however, provides no evidence to 
establish the popularity of the website such that event coverage on the site is indicative of national or 
international recognition. National or international accessibility by itself is not a realistic indicator of 
a given website's reputation. The Petitioner has not presented any evidence to establish that the 
content from ._______ __.can be considered to receive national or international recognition. 
Turning to the letter from I l he only addressesI Iand does not present any opinions 
attempting to establish the accolade the Petitioner received (the title of Speaker of the Year) is 
nationally or internationally recognized in the foreign national's field of endeavor. Absent from the 
record is the criteria by which the title recipients are selected, the selection process itself: and evidence 
that addresses the reputation of the award within the field. The plain language of the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) specifically requires that the Petitioner's awards be nationally or 
3 
internationally recognized in the field of endeavor and the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that 
meets those requirements. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necesswy translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided six articles he claims are about him and related to his work, as well as 
information about each ofthe publications. He did not specify what type ofpublication (a professional 
or major trade publication, or other major media) each article appeared in, but he did indicate his 
"professional achievements have been published in major media sources" and we will treat them as 
such. The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The 
Director decided the material was not sufficiently about the Petitioner's work and that he did not 
demonstrate the publications were qualifying because the record lacked circulation statistics for both 
the publications he was submitting, as well as other publications in which to compare to his offered 
evidence. 
A review of the articles reveal they are primarily about the Petitioner and his work in the field. 
However, we agree with the Director that the evidence the Petitioner presented relating to the articles 
constituting major media are inadequate. When USCIS evaluates whether a submitted publication is 
other major media, relevant factors include the relative circulation, readership, or viewership that 
should be compared to other similar statistics. See generalZv 6 USCIS Policy Manual B. l, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. The phrase "other major media" is generally accepted to mean 
a publication with significant reach and recognition, and it follows that we may reasonably require 
evidence of the same type ofreach and recognition through circulation data. Krasniqi, 558 F. Supp. 
3d at 185. 
We are also not required to accept a publication's own claims relating to whether it qualifies as major 
media, as such self-serving claims are not sufficiently probative. Id. (citations omitted). Probative 
evidence is the type that "must tend to prove or disprove an issue that is material to the determination 
of the case." Matter ofE-F-N-, 28 I&N Dec. 591, 593 (BIA 2022) (quoting Matter ofRuzku, 26 I&N 
Dec. 731, 733 (BIA 2016)); see also Evidence, Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019). Therefore, if 
some form of the Petitioner's evidence does not adequately prove their contention, then it is not 
considered to be probative. When combined with other favorable material, evidence that is not 
probative on its own could exist on a palette in which the Petitioner "paints a mosaic" that sufficiently 
demonstrates the Petitioner's claims. However, the Petitioner has not crafted such a tapestry here. In 
summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the regulation's requirements relating 
to other major media. 
We now discuss the actual evidence and begin with the article in the newspaper.
_________ ~ 
The Petitioner provided a document from.__ ________ ___,purportedly reflecting the daily 
average readers through a bar chart comparing this publication with numerous publications in various 
South American countries. This document does not contain the date the data was published, does not 
reflect whether this applies to newspaper sales or website visits, nor does it demonstrate this 
publication's circulation statistics are on par with the other examples in the bar chart. We noteO 
4 
._______~Iranks the second lowest out of the 11 examples presented. The Petitioner has not 
shown that this publication's circulation statistics are high when compared to similar media sources. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, B.1. 
Next, the Petitioner offers a Sunday magazine I I appearing in the I [ 
The Petitioner supports his claims this is major media through material from I I itself 
describin its histo and the services it provides. He also offers a translated document from 
-----------..-----,.__A_l_th_o_u......._h~the Petitioner provided evidence from I I 
.____________ __. reflecting._______. is a national-level publication, he did not offer 
other circulation material in which to compare to the Sunday magazine of this newspaper. 
The remaining articles appearing in~-------------------------' each suffer the same shortcomings as the above evidence; a lack of circulation statistics in which to 
compare with the submitted evidence. As it stands, the Petitioner has not demonstrated any of the 
material he submitted qualifies to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner provided letters and informational evidence relating to four organizations. Although 
the Director determined that the Petitioner met the requirements of this criterion, we do not agree. 
A leading role should be apparent by its position in the overall organizational hierarchy and the role's 
matching duties. A critical role should be apparent from the Petitioner's impact on the entity's 
activities. The Petitioner's performance in any role should establish whether it was leading or critical 
for organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments as a whole. Ultimately, the leading or the 
critical role must be performed on behalf of the organization, establishment, division, or department 
that enjoys a distinguished reputation, rather than for a unit subordinate to these listed entities. See 
generalZv 6 USCIS Policy Manual B.l, https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. USCIS policy reflects 
that organizations, establishments, divisions, or departments that enjoy a distinguished reputation are 
"marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence." Id. ( citing to the definition of distinguished, 
Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
While the Petitioner provided letters and information relating to each of the four organizations, a 
review of those letters reveals they lack the detail required to demonstrate whether his role in each 
entity was of a leading or critical nature. The letters do not describe how the Petitioner's workshops 
impacted each establishment, and it does not appear that he held a leading role in any of the 
organizations, as required. 
For example, the Petitioner provided a translated letter from I l a Partner atl l 
a brand management company. I I letter simply states the company has already blgunl 
to implement a few of the fast-track alternatives reviewed with the Petitioner in workshops, andI lis happy to report that their clients have greatly appreciated the results. The Petitioner has 
not established how his role has been critical tol las neither he norl Iexplain 
5 
how that company has progressed since the classes, or how the workshops resulted in any measurable 
success since he provided the seminars. The remaining letters do not offer any further details regarding 
the Petitioner's leading or critical roles he might have performed for the companies. 
Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's favorable determination as it relates to this criterion. 
B. We Reserve Other Eligibility Determinations 
While the Petitioner argues and submits evidence for two additional criteria on appeal relating to 
original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and authorship of scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi), it is unnecessary for us to address these additional grounds because he cannot 
numerically meet the required number ofcriteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve these issues. Patel v. Garland, 
596 U.S. 328, 332 (2022) ( citing INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (finding agencies are 
not required to make "purely advisory findings" on issues that are unnecessary to the ultimate decision)); 
see also Matter of Chen, 28 I&N Dec. 676, 677 n.1, 678 (BIA 2023) ( declining to reach alternative 
issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 20, 2024 In Re: 29731370 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a clinical psychologist and researcher , seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner did not 
establish that the Beneficiary meets the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
satisfying at least three of the ten criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or demonstrating his receipt of 
a major, internationally recognized award. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability immigrant classification under section 
203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act if: 
• They have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which 
has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• Their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the future. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor ." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a 
beneficiary's one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner 
does not submit this evidence, then they must provide documentation that the beneficiary meets at 
least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner demonstrates that the beneficiary meets these initial evidence requirements, we 
then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether 
the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is 
among the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 
1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, 
if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Petitioner's Signature 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2) provides that 
"[u]nless otherwise specified in this chapter, an 
acceptable signature on a benefit request that is being filed with the USCIS [U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services] is one that is either handwritten or, for benefit request filed electronically as 
permitted by the instructions to the form, in electronic format." 1 
The USCIS Policy Manual provides that in "general, any person requesting an immigration benefit 
must sign their own immigration benefit request, and any other associated documents, before filing it 
with USCIS." See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual C.l (citing to 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a)(2)), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. USCIS policy explains that a valid signature is "any 
handwritten mark or sign made by a person" and such signature must be made by the person who is 
the affected party with standing to file the benefit request to signify that "[ t ]he person knows of the 
content of the request and any supporting documents; [t]he person has reviewed and approves of any 
information contained in such request and any supporting documents; and [t]he person certifies under 
penalty of perjury that the request and any other supporting documents are true and correct." 
See generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B.2(B). A person's signature on an immigration form 
establishes a strong presumption that the signer knows and has assented to its contents, absent evidence 
of fraud or other wrongful acts by another person. Matter of Valdez, 27 I&N Dec. 496, 499 (BIA 
2018) (citing Thompson v. Lynch, 788 F.3d 638, 647 (6th Cir. 2015); Bingham v. Holder, 637 F.3d 
1040, 1045 (9th Cir. 2011 ). The probative force of a declaration subscribed under penalty of perjury 
derives from the signature of the declarant. 
Although the "regulations do not require that the person signing submit an 'original' or 'wet ink' 
signature on a petition, application, or other request to USCIS," USCIS does "not accept signatures 
created by a typewriter, word processor, stamp, auto-pen, or similar device." See generally 1 USCIS 
Policy Manual, supra, at B. See also generally 1 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at A (stating that 
"[ e ]xcept as otherwise specifically authorized, a benefit requestor must personally sign his or her own 
request before filing it with USCIS"). USCIS has implemented these regulations and attendant 
policies "to maintain the integrity ofthe immigration benefit system and validate the identity ofbenefit 
1 The provisions governing electronic filings do not apply here. 
2 
requestors." Id at A. In the same way that one person signing a declaration "for" another person 
carries no evidentiary force, neither will an image of a signature duplicated using some electronic 
means or method. Without the signatory's actual and personal signature as the declarant, the 
declaration under the penalty of perjury on the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petitioner for Alien Worker, 
has no evidentiary force. See in re Rivera, 342 B.R. 435, 458-459 (D. N.J. 2006). 
Here, the Petitioner's signature on the Form 1-140 was created by a word processor and, therefore, it 
was not properly signed, and the deficient signature should have resulted in the petition being 
improperly filed under 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(a). According to USCIS policy, "[i]fUSCIS accepts a request 
for adjudication and later determines that it has a deficient signature, USCIS denies the request." See 
1 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at B.2(A). For this reason alone, the petition is dismissed. 
Nevertheless, we will also address whether the Petitioner qualifies for the extraordinary ability 
immigrant classification under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
B. Extraordinary Ability 
The Petitioner is a clinical psychologist and researcher in New York. The Petitioner does not claim 
that he qualifies for extraordinary ability classification based on a one-time achievement; therefore, 
he must submit evidence demonstrating that he meets at least three ofthe ten initial evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner submitted sufficient 
evidence to establish participation as a judge of the work of others in the field and authorship of 
scholarly articles. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), (vi). On appeal, the Petitioner continues to assert 
that he also meets the evidentiary criterion relating to high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services. 
For the reasons provided below, we conclude that the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he satisfies 
the requirements of at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner provided his 2022 Form W-2 Wage and Tax Statement showing an income of$166,161 
and pay statements from January 2022 to March 2022, and April 2023 to May 2023. In addition, the 
Petitioner submitted the May 2022 occupational employment and wage statistics (OEWS) page for 
clinical and counseling psychologists and salary data published by Indeed and ZipRecruiter. 
Here, the Petitioner has not sufficiently documented how his salary compares to other clinical 
psychologists and researchers in order for us to evaluate whether his salary is high in relation to others 
in the field. The 2022 OEWS shows that the 90th percentile of clinical and counseling psychologists 
earn $168,790 annually in the United States, which is higher than the Petitioner's 2022 earnings. 
Further, the 90th percentile salary information is for a 2022 nationwide survey of workers in all 
settings, as well as across geographic areas, both major metropolitan areas and those that are not. 
See https://www.bls.gov/bls/wages.htm. In addition, there does not appear to be a research component 
included in the salary information. A petitioner claiming to meet this criterion must provide 
appropriate evidence such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l)(criterion 9), https://www.uscis.gov/policy manual. 
3 
Without more, such general information is insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
See Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) ( considering professional golfer's 
earnings versus other PGA Tour golfers); see also Grimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 
1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 
440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) (comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL 
defensemen). 
With regard to Indeed, the information the Petitioner submitted identifies a "high" salary of $164,170 
for a clinical psychologist in New York. While his salary of $166,161 is above this "high" salary, 
there is insufficient data to support a determination that he earns a high salary in relation to others 
working as clinical psychologists and researchers in New York. Further, some websites that rely on 
user-reported salary data may not provide a valid comparison it: for example, too few users reported 
their salaries, which may impact the reliability of the data. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2(B)(l). The information from Indeed shows that only 77 salaries were reported for this 
survey. Thus, based on the relatively small sample size, it is reasonable to conclude that it is 
insufficient to establish that he meets this criterion. 
As for the information from ZipRecruiter, it shows that the "top earners" for clinical psychologists in 
New York earn $158,054 a year and states that it "is seeing salaries as high as $181,115," which is 
approximately $15,000 higher than the Petitioner's salary. Further, it does not define the scope or 
settings ofpositions it covers such that the Petitioner has established that the information is sufficiently 
similar to his own to satisfy this criterion. 
For all these reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he meets this criterion. 
Because the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence demonstrating that the 
Beneficiary has a qualifying one-time achievement or that he meets at least three of the ten criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. We note, however, that the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa 
classification, intended for individuals already at the top oftheir respective fields, rather than for those 
progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 
953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) 
(finding that the extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. 
Dep 't ofHomeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) 
( determining that EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"); 
see also Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at * 1 
(D.D.C. June 3, 2020) ( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published 
theoretical physicist specializing in non-Einsteinian theories ofgravitation) (stating that"[c ]ourts have 
found that even highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required 
sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who 
4 
have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 20, 2024 In Re: 29828545 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a musician who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of 
Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we will withdraw the 
Director's decision and remand the matter for entry of a new decision consistent with the following 
analysis. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant 
classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field ofendeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met seven of the regulatory 
criteria. The Director decided the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and the 
display of the Petitioner's work but that he had not satisfied the criteria associated with prizes or 
awards, membership, published material, high salary or remuneration, and commercial success. On 
appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to all the criteria he 
previously claimed. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree the Petitioner satisfied 
the criteria the Director granted, and we conclude he has satisfied at least one additional criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the fieldfor which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author ofthe material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Within the initial filing under Exhibit A, the Petitioner presented at least three forms ofdocumentation 
in support of his claims that his published material evidence qualified as major media. That evidence 
identified several Bangladeshi newspapers as some ofthe highest ranking in national-level circulation. 
The articles about the Petitioner and relating to his work in the field appeared in some of those 
newspapers. 
When the Petitioner responded to the Director's request for evidence, he offered translated evidence 
from the Directorate of Film and Publications that also shows several of the publications containing 
articles about him and relating to his work in the field were among those with some of the highest 
2 
national circulation in Bangladesh. 1 The Director indicated the data represented raw numbers and that 
it did not provide the comparison to other circulation figures required by USCIS policy. As the 
document ranked 52 Bangladeshi newspapers by circulation numbers, it is unclear what the Director 
meant in their determination that "[ n ]o evidence was provided comparing the circulation figures of 
these publications to those of other similar publications. Data alone is insufficient to meet the 
requirements of this criterion." The Director also indicated that regional audiences are not generally 
considered to be major media. However, the scope of the materials we discussed above were more 
oriented toward a national level rather than limited to a smaller region within Bangladesh. 
Here, the Petitioner has offered evidence that his published material content meets this criterion's 
minimal requirements. Accordingly, we withdraw the Director's unfavorable determination as it 
relates to this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this matter so the 
Director can perform a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 Based on internet searches the translated evidence appears to have translated the Department of Film and Publications as 
the Directorate of Film and Publications. As department versus directorate are similar organizational concepts, we do not 
consider this to be detrimental to the translation's veracity. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Irtrrnigration 
Servic~s Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
MATTER OF A-T-A- DATE: FEB. 21, 2019 
MOTION ON ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS OFFICE DECISION \ 
PETITION: FORM I-HO, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a tennis academy, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary 
ability in the arts as "a curator and historian of Expressive Realism Art."1 See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). Thi.s first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustaineg national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive docurrientation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition. We affirmed the Director's denial, 
concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied the judging criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), but 
not at least three of the ten criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), as required. We subsequently 
denied the Petitioner's motion to reopen the matter. ' 
The Petitioner has now filed its second motion, a motion to reconsider the matter. It asserts that we 
erred in om previous decision, and claims that it has presented evidence satisfying five additional 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (v), (vi), (vii) and (viii). Upon review, we will deny the 
Petitioner's second motion. 
I. LAW 
. A motion to reconsider must establish that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application 
oflaw or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Moreover, a motion to recons(der must be 
supported by a pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or statement 
of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or Department of Homeland Security policy 
(DHS). We may grant a motion that satisfies these requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the 
requested immigration benefit. ,, 
1 The Petitioner initially offered the Ben~ficiary a "Business Development~& Sales M[anagemen]t'' position, but then 
withdrew the offer, claiming that it had mistakenly thought that a job offer was required to classify her as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. . · 
.
Matter of A-T-A-
In addition, the regulation specifies motion filing requirements, providing that a petitioner must submit 
"a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable decision has been or is the subject of 
any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and status or result of the proceeding." 
8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4) requires that "[a] motion that 
does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed." 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has not submitted "a statement about whether or not the validity of the unfavorable 
decision has been or is the subject of any judicial proceeding and, if so, the court, nature, date, and 
status or result of the proceeding." It therefore has not met the motion filing requirements. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C); 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). In the alternative, for the reasons wewill 
discuss below, the Petitioner has not shown that .we should grant its motion to reconsider the matter. 
As explained in our' decision dismissing the appeal, the Petitioner has shown the Beneficiary's 
"participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an 
allied field of specification for which classification is. sought." It has therefore satisfied the judging 
\_ . criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). The Petitioner, however, has not established that we erred 
in our most recent decision denying its motion, concluding that it has failed to-satisfy two additional 
criteria. 2 ' · 
Docum,entation of the alien ·s membership in associations in the field.for-which classffication 
i~ sought, whichrequire outstanding achievements of their members. as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
On motion, the Petitioner claims that the Beneficiary's membership ih the 
, her appointment to be the head of the association's 
Donation Department, and her selection to handle art donations for the . . 
satisfy the membership criterion. The Petitioner advanced the same arguments on appeal and in 
support of its previously fifed motion. We addressed these arguments as well as the relevant evidence 
in our two decisions, one dismissing the appeal, and the other denying the motion. Specifically, we 
explained in our motion decision that while has certain membership requirements -including 
requiring candidates to submit written applications that are then evaluated by the board -the 
documentation in the record does not confirm that the association requires outstanding achievements 
of its members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their'disciplines or fields. 
The record lacks credible evidence on how the board evaluates candidates or that demonstrates the 
assessment is completed by recognized hational or international ·experts. · 
Moreover , as. discussed in our motion decision, the Petitioner has not shown that the Beneficiary's 
appointments, which might illustrate her ability to carry out certain pr9fessional obligations, constitute 
2 The. Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate , that the Beneficiary has received a rnajor, 
internationally recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, it must provide documentation that meets at least 
three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements. 
2 
./ 
Matter of A-T-A-
her membership in qualifying associations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). On motion, the Petitioner 
has not pointed to any pertinent precedent or adopted decision, statutory or regulatory provision, or 
statement of USCIS or DHS in support of its p·osition that professional appointments qualify as 
membership in associations. As such, it has not established that we erred in our findings as relating 
to this criterion. · 
Evidence of the alien's original scient(fic. scholarly. artistic, athletic. or business-related 
~ontributions of major sign(ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
; 
The Petitioner argues on motion, as it did on appeal and in support of its previously filed motion, that 
the Beneficiary has made original contributions of major significance in the field based on her role in 
facilitating the donation of underrepresented art work to public and-educational institutions. One 
reference letter indicates that her work has "allow[ ed] a more nuanced view of the art from the interwar 
period." While reference letters in the record voice the authors' appreciation for the Beneficiary's 
effort in closing the gap in expressive realism art in U.S. museums, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that her actions rise to the level of contributions of major significance in the field, such that they have 
remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or that her work is original, such that she was the first 
person or one of the first people to have helped in closing the gap in a particular area of art. 
To satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must establish that not only has the Beneficiary made original 
contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. Not all contributions are 
qualifying. Rather, a petitioner must offer documentation confirming that vthe contributions are of 
major significance. Major significance in the field may be shown through evidence, such as major 
llledia profiling or reporting, verifying that a beneficiary's work has been widely praised and 
recognizyd throughout the field. Reference letters, such as those in the record, that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value and do not show that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with 
Certain Form 1-140 Petitions: Revisions to the Adjudicator '.s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22. 2, AFM 
Update ADll-14 8-9 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov/laws/policy-memoranda. For example, 
the one-sentence letter from art historian and exhibition curator indicatingthat 
"there is a gap in in the US museums and that closing this gap is of major 
significance to the field," does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, as the record 
does not substantiate the conclusory statement. On motion, the Petitioner has not presented any legal 
authority establishing that we erred in our findings as relating to this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien ·s authorship of scholarly articles in the .field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major medici. · 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On motion, the Petitioner states that the Beneficiary's one-page article about . an 
artist, published in Game Over _satisfies this criterion. 3 It contends that Game 'Over is "an art catalog" 
and that "by definition ... [it] is a professional publication in the field of art." It also claims that the 
. . 
3 While we neglected to discuss this criterion in our motion decision, we had explained our reasons for c~ncluding that the 
Petitioner did not meet this criterion in our decision dismissing the appeal. · . · 
3 
.
Matter of A-T-A-
publication "cannot be considered anything less than a major trade publication as its only purpose is 
. to present and promote art." The Petitioner has not pointed to any evidence in the record confirming 
that the publication is "an art catalog" that qualifies as a professional or major trade publication. Its 
statements that the record does not substantiate are insufficient to show that it satisfies this criterion. 
'Regardless, the Petitioner has not established that the article is scholarly. "In general, [a scholarly 
article] should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or 
pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article." See USCIS Policy Memorandum 
PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 9. In contrast, the Beneficiary's article is written as a one-page letter to 
with a photograph of his art installation, but does not include other elements commonly 
found in scholarly articles. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that this writing qualifies as a 
scholarly article. Based on these reasons, the Petitioner has not satisfied the criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibUions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
The Petitioner acknowledges on motion, as it did previously, that the Beneficiary is not a painter or an 
artist, but claims that she satisfies this criterion because she was a "book coordinator" for 
and served as a curator for exhibits in the gallery she owned. The field in which the Beneficiary 
claims extraordinary ability is expressive realism art. The Petitioner, however, has not established 
that her duties as a book coordinator and curator relates to her work in that specific field. 
Moreover, although the editor of -~ thanked the Beneficiary. for "coordinating this 
wonderful book," he did not explain what she did specifically. On motion, the Petiti.oner claims that 
her duties included "edit[ing] all eJements of the book for style, substance, and organization," 
"review[ing] the layout," and ''oversee[ing] all aspects of production.". The record, however, lacks 
sufficient evidence, such as statements from the author and editor, to support these assertions. As 
such, the Petitioner has not shown that w~ erred in our determination as relating to this issue. 
Furthermore, although the Petitioner has offered two 2018 letters from artists who had displayed their 
work in the Beneficiary's gallery, these letters are insufficient to confirm that she meets this criterion. 
The letters contain verbatim passages relating to the Beneficiary's responsibilities as a gallery owner. 
The identical wordings lead us to question if the letters credibly reflect the authors' independent 
observations. See Ye v. US. Dep 't o_f Justice, 489 F .3d 51 7, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) ( stating that nearly 
identical language in separate asylum affidavits may support an adverse credibility finding). 
Regardless, the letters provide that the Beneficiary "personally invited, curated, exhibited, and 
mentored ... talented young artists," but do not specificaIJy explain what she did or otherwise 
demonstrate that her activities associated witl-i' being a gallery owner constitute the display of her work 
in the field of expressive realism art at artistic exhibitions or showcases. As such, the Petitioner has 
not shown that we erred in concluding that the Beneficiary does not meet this criterion. 
4 
.
Matter of A-T-A-
Evidence .that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. · 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner maintains that the Beneficiary satisfies this criterion because she has performed in a 
leading or critical role for the which hired her to facilitate its donation of 
artwork to one of the three According to a letter 
from the owner of the foundation, he authmized the Beneficiary to donate a part of his collection to a 
U.S. institution of her choice to present the art to the American public. 
To establish a leading role, the evidence must show that the foreign national is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to qemonstrate if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. Here, the record, including ·the letter 
from the founciation's owner, does not show that the Beneficiary has led the foundation. Similarly, 
although the Beneficiary has been entrusted to facilitate the donation of artwork, the evidence is 
insufficient to demonstrate that she has performed in a critical role, such that she has contributed in a 
way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. 
Id. The Petitioner has offered limited information on the foundatiori's activities besides donating 
pieces from its collection. Furthermore, the record, while verifies the foundation's donations, does 
hot include sufficient documentation establishing that it has a distinguished reputation, as required 
under the regulation. As such, the Petitioner has not shown that we erred in concluding the Beneficiary 
does not meet this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner's motion to reconsider the matter will be denied because it does not meet the motion 
filing requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.S(a)(l)(iii)(C), (a)(4). In the alternative, the motion will be 
denied because it does not establish that our previous decision was based on an incorrect application 
oflaw or policy, or that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is denied. 
Cite as Matter of A-T-A-, ID# 2060602 (AAO Feb. 21, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25233092 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an actor, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center initially denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
did not meet any of the claimed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) . Following an appeal, we 
remanded the case to the Director for entry of a new decision. The Director determined that, while 
the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirement for this classification, the record did not establish 
that he achieved sustained national or international acclaim and is one of the very small percentage of 
actors at the top of the field. The Petitioner appealed the new decision and we dismissed that appeal. 
We also dismissed two subsequent motions to reconsider. The matter is now before us on a third 
motion to reconsider. 1 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). Upon review, we will dismiss the 
motion. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. 
1 The Petitioner checked box 1.a in Part 2 of Form 1-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, indicating that he was filing an 
appeal. However , because his brief refers to his filing as a motion to reconsider our previous motion decision, we will 
consider this as a motion to reconsider . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our decision was based on an incorrect application of law 
or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings at the 
time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Director concluded in his most recent decision in this matter that while the Petitioner met three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria, he did not establish that he had sustained national or international acclaim 
through extensive documentation, nor did he establish that he was among the small percentage at the 
top of his field. On appeal, we reached the same conclusion; we also refuted the Petitioner's assertion 
that the Director misinterpreted the Ninth Circuit's decision in Kazarian as requiring a final merits 
determination. In our initial motion decision, we explained again that case law and official U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) policy supported the Director's and our interpretation 
of Kazarian, and we explained why the record does not establish that the Petitioner qualifies as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. In our subsequent motion decision, we explained that the 
Petitioner's reasoning ignores plain language in the Kazarian decision and is not supported by relevant 
caselaw; we further explained that the publicly available USCIS Policy Manual plainly states that if 
an individual shows that they either meet three of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) or 
have a one-time achievement, they must then establish that they possess the requisite sustained 
national or international acclaim and are one of the small percentage at the top of their field. 2 
On motion, the Petitioner does not challenge our previous conclusions regarding the merits of his 
petition. The Petitioner submits copies of court cases from 1994, 1995, and 2008, as well as non­
precedent appellate decisions3 from 2004 and 2007, for individual petitions that were found to qualify 
2 See generally 6 USCTS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual. 
3 We note that these decisions were not published as precedents and therefore do not bind USCTS officers in future 
adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non-precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the 
individual case, and may be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
as noted above, applicable law and policy. 
2 
for the extraordinary ability classification. Those petitions were found eligible for the classification 
because it was determined that certain evidence presented to support the petitions was either 
mischaracterized or ignored. However, those cases were decided under previous adjudicative policy 
guidance that is not applicable to the present case. Further, those cases were decided prior to the 2010 
Kazarian decision. In the present case, we fully reviewed the evidence of record and rendered our 
previous motion decision based on that evidence in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and 
USCIS policy. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated that our previous motion decision was based upon an incorrect 
application of law or policy. Therefore, we will dismiss the motion to reconsider. 
ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24826225 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a soccer coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the 
athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the record did not establish 
that the Petitioner qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability either as the recipient of a one­
time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award, or at least three of the ten 
regulatory criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 
C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de nova. Matter of Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de nova review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he received a major, internationally recognized award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The 
Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x), 
that of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), related to judging others' work. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts 
that he meets four other criteria, which we will analyze below. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received prizes or awards and 
the prizes or awards are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of 
endeavor .1 The Petitioner provided evidence that he received al I award. 
However, he offered little to no evidence about the I coaching award such 
that we can conclude that it is a nationally or internationally recognized.2 To support his eligibility 
under this and other criteria, he provided reference letters from players and colleagues, along with 
information about the01ocation in Rhode Island in which he served as a coach. The evidence does 
not demonstrate how many coaches receive the award and whether only0coaches are eligible for 
1 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1 -14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 We acknowledge the assertions in the attorney letter accompanying the petition; however, the unsupported assertions of 
counsel do not constitute evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 {BIA 1988). 
2 
consideration. Without more, the evidence suggests that on ly coaches can receive al I I award. Furthermore, the record does not demonstrate how winners are selected or 
announced. Although may be a national or international soccer club by virtue of its 41 locations 
throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, and Spain, this does not sufficiently establish that 
the coach of the year award is a nationally or internationally recognized award. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field for which classification 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate the existence of published material 
about him in professional or major trade publications or other major media, as well as the title, date, 
and author of the material.3 The Petitioner submitted articles from and the I I none of which contain the author of the material as the regulation requires. 
The Petitioner submitted evidence to establish that I lis the oldest and most influential 
newspaper in a particular part of Europe. The Petitioner presented an article entitled,! I 
The title does not reference the Petitioner, but 
rather indicates the article may be about youth soccer in the United States. Although the Petitioner 
provided a certified English language translation, the translation appears to be incomplete.4 
The title of the I !article indicates that it is about soccer in the United States I I and is in an interview style format. Although the Petitioner provided certified translations 
of I I interview with him as their source, the translation appears to be incomplete, as the 
Petitioner provided only the first three of 13 pages. The record contains little to no background or 
readership information about thel I 
The Petitioner provided information thatDis a popular news source for women in Serbia. The 
article contains an interview with the Petitioner regarding youth soccer in the United States and the 
Petitioner's work as a girls' soccer coach. 
The I article references the Zambia girls' soccer teamJ I and is about the 
increasing popularity of soccer among girls. The article references the Petitioner as the source of 
information about youth soccer in the United States. The accompanying website printouts, such as 
Wikipedia, provide background information regarding the history of the land state 
that it is a state-owned newspaper. 
Although the articles contain information from the Petitioner in an interview style format and provide 
some introductory background about the Petitioner, the articles appear to be about youth soccer in the 
United States. Articles that are not about the foreign national do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. 
See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding 
a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). While the articles contain information 
3 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7. 
4 Among other indicators, the length of the original text is significantly longer than the length of the translation. 
3 
about the Petitioner's work in the field of soccer, the contents of the articles suggest interest in the 
Petitioner only insofar as he informs them about youth soccer in the United States. Therefore, the 
evidence does not sufficiently demonstrate that the articles are about the Petitioner. Additionally, 
where we do not have a complete translation of the article, the content of the article is not established 
and therefore cannot serve as evidence of published material about the Petitioner. 
Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that these media represent professional or major trade 
publications or other major media. Although the Petitioner provided background information about 
the history of certain media outlets, the approximate scope of distribution, and ownership details, he 
did not provide sufficient evidence to explain or show the significance of this information or how it 
indicates a medium's major status or standing.5 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not established eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that he has not only been invited to judge the 
work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same 
or an allied field of specialization.6 The evidence supports a finding that the Petitioner is a soccer 
coach and as a part of that employment, he judges the performance of the soccer players he coaches. 
Therefore, the evidence establishes eligibility under this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish not only that 
has he made original contributions, but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a Petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance.7 
The Petitioner provided numerous reference letters in which the authors praise the Petitioner's 
personal and professional qualities, his abilities as a soccer coach, as well as his knowledge and skill. 
Many of the authors describe the Petitioner's professional accomplishments and the specific results he 
achieved for individual players. However, the authors do not identify any original contributions, nor 
do they provide specific, detailed information explaining how the contributions have been majorly 
significant in the field. Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major 
significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value.8 On the other hand, letters that 
5 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material 
in professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation (on­
line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
6 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
7 See Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126 at 134. 
8 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
4 
lack specifics and use hyperbolic language do not add value and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that forms the basis for meeting this criterion.9 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily 
conclusory statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Att'y Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Here, the evidence indicates that the Petitioner positively influenced and impacted individual players; 
however, the evidence does not support a finding that he affected or contributed in any way to the field 
of athletics or soccer. The letters do not describe any specific methods or techniques the Petitioner 
developed to support a finding that the Petitioner's contributions to his players and teams are original. 
Even if or or any of the other soccer clubs in which the Petitioner 
participated as either a coach or a player, used policies, strategies, or methods the Petitioner developed, 
this would not demonstrate his impact or influence in the overall field of athletics or even soccer 
specifically.10 Because the Petitioner has not established that his achievements as a soccer player or 
coach are original contributions which have been of major significance to the sport of soccer or the 
field of athletics, we conclude that he does not meet this criterion. 
Summary 
As the Petitioner has not asserted eligibility under criteria (ii), (vi), (vii), (ix), or (x), and we determined 
that he has not established eligibility under (i), (iii), or (v), we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has 
established eligibility under three criteria. In other words, even if we analyzed criterion (viii), 
regarding the performance of a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a 
distinguished reputation, and found the Petitioner eligible under this criterion, the Petitioner would still 
only establish that he meets two criteria. 
As the Petitioner has not established eligibility under three criteria, and he does not assert eligibility under 
four criteria, analysis of the remaining criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) would serve no meaningful 
purpose. Accordingly, we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) 
(stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions 
unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 (declining to 
reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
B. Kazarian 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director misinterpreted Kazarian. Specifically, the Petitioner 
argues that "USCIS misinterprets the final merits determination in Kazarian as an opportunity to 
question the three criteria that have been satisfied." The Petitioner highlights Buletini v. INS, 850 F. 
Supp. 1222 (E.D. Mich. 1994), asserting that the Director should have applied Buletini, a pre-Kazarian 
district court decision. In contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States 
circuit court (such as with Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decisions of a United 
States district court in cases arising within the same district. See Matter of K-S-, 20 l&N Dec. 715 
9 Id. at 9. See also Kazarian, 580 F.3d at 1036, aff'd in part 596 F.3d at 1115 (holding that letters that repeat the regulatory 
language but do not explain how an individual's contributions have already influenced the field are insufficient to establish 
original contributions of major significance in the field). 
10 See generally USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9; see also Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 
(upholding a finding that a ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not corroborate her impact in the 
field as a whole). 
5 
(BIA 1993). The reasoning underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration 
when it is properly before us; however, the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. 
Id. at 719. 
Regardless, the Buletini decision does not clearly conflict with the Kazarian court's characterization 
of the adjudication process as including a final merits determination. The Buletini opinion indicates 
that the court considered the possibility that a petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria 
and still not meet the extraordinary ability standard if USCIS provides specific and substantiated 
reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject 
at any time the concept of examining the quality of the evidence presented to determine whether it 
establishes a Petitioner's eligibility for this highly restrictive classification . Therefore, the Petitioner's 
assertion that we should have relied on Buletini and another pre-Kazarian federal district court 
decision, rather than Kazarian and binding USCIS policy guidance is not persuasive.11 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he satisfies at least three of the regulatory criteria, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and conclude that it does not support 
a finding that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reason. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 The Petitioner also cites Gulen v. Chertoff, No. 07-2148, 2008 WL 2779001 (E.D. Pa. July 16, 2008) to conclude that if 
a petitioner meets three criteria, it is contrary to law if USCIS concludes that such a petitioner is not an individual of 
extraordinary ability. However, as we analyzed above, the Petitioner does not meet at least three criteria. In addition, 
even if this case were applicable to the Petitioner, it would still constitute a pre-Kazarian federal district court decision 
that we need not follow. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22668589 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a professional water skier, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition) , concluding that the Petitioner did not establish she had a major, internationally recognized 
award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The matter is 
now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a 
preponderance of the evidence . Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 
(AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 
537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following six categories: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi) Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner met two of the evidentiary criteria relating to published 
material about the Petitioner in major media and authorship of scholarly articles, but that she had not 
satisfied the remaining categories listed above. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she met the 
evidentiary criteria relating to each of the areas upon which the Director issued an adverse 
determination. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has satisfied the published material in major media and the scholarly articles criteria, but 
she also satisfies one additional category of evidence. Because we conclude the Petitioner has satisfied 
one additional criterion, we will provide analysis on that requirement, but it is unnecessary that we 
evaluate the remaining claimed criteria as the Petitioner is only required to satisfy three of the 
regulatory requirements. 
2 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy. First, the Petitioner 
must demonstrate that she is a member of an association in her field. Second, the Petitioner must 
demonstrate both of the following: (1) the associations utilize nationally or internationally recognized 
experts to judge the achievements of prospective members to determine if the achievements are 
outstanding, and (2) the associations use this outstanding determination as a condition of eligibility 
for prospective membership. 
The Petitioner contends that she was a member of the Belarus National Water Ski Team's main squad 
froml I The documentation indicated that recognition of sports in the Republic of 
Belarus is carried out by the Ministry of Sports and Tourism (MST). Thus, MST determined the 
country's official sports, and also selected each sport's national team. The documentation from MST 
stated that a national team consists of athletes, coaches, and other specialists selected for preparation 
and participation under the state symbols of the Republic of Belarus in the Olympics, Paralympics, 
Deaflympic Games, European Games, World and European Championships, World and European 
cups, and other international sporting competitions held by international sports organizations. 
As evidence of membership in the national team, the Petitioner submitted a certificate of membership 
from MST confirming she was in the main squad of the national team for each year from I I 
The Petitioner also submitted a document from MST listing the criteria used for selecting the national 
team. According to the MST's rules, athletes are selected based on results shown at official 
international and republican competitions. Further, MST established tables with specific 
competitions, events, age categories and acceptable rankings for each competition to qualify for the 
national team. The document from MST also stated the main squad of the national team should be 
approved based upon the proposal of the head coach and coaching counsel. And if several athletes 
have the same technical results, the decision on including an athlete to the squad should be taken by 
the head coach of the national team. 
While the Belarus National Water Ski Team is not an "association," we could consider the Petitioner's 
selection to such a team as comparable evidence pursuant to the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) 
because being named to the roster of a national team is the result of a multi-level national selection 
process, supervised by national experts. Given the level of accomplishment required to secure a place 
on a country's national team (which competes at the international level), it appears reasonable to 
conclude that it is the functional equivalent of an association of the type contemplated in the 
regulations. 
The Petitioner has, therefore, overcome the only stated ground for denial of the petition; the failure to 
satisfy at least three evidentiary criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Nevertheless, the record 
does not support approval of the petition. However, granting the third initial criterion does not suffice to 
establish eligibility for the classification the Petitioner seeks. The Director must undertake a final merits 
determination to analyze the Petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to 
3 
determine if they establish extraordinary ability in the Petitioner's field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.1 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has overcome the only stated ground for denial, we remand this proceeding so 
the Director can render a final merits determination in keeping with the Kazarian framework. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCIS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2024 In Re: 30291387 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
establish that she qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. We dismissed a subsequent 
appeal. The matter is now before us on combined motions to reopen and reconsider. In these 
proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See section 
291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motions. 
A motion to reconsider must establish that our prior decision was based on an incorrect application of 
law or policy and that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence in the record of proceedings 
at the time of the decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our 
latest decision. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(ii) . We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and 
demonstrate eligibility for the requested benefit. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement in which she reiterates arguments and evidence 
previously presented, and she submits documentation previously included in the record. She states 
that "the AAO failed to consider the evidence as a whole" (emphasis in the original). She accuses the 
decision of excessively focusing on the significance of the individual components of her submission 
and of failing to consider the totality of the record, citing Chursov v. Miller, 18-cv-286 (PKC) 
(S.D.N.Y. May 13, 2019). We note that, in that case, the petitioner challenged USCIS's determination 
that he failed to submit evidence to demonstrate his eligibility under two criteria. According to the 
ruling, USCIS had determined that letters of support detailing the petitioner's original work "were 'not 
presumptive evidence of eligibility' and that an original contribution 'must be demonstrated by 
preexisting , independent, and corroborating evidence."' The court found that USCIS had not 
adequately explained why multiple letters of support, considered as a whole, did not constitute 
evidence of originality. Here, the Petitioner has not provided an explanation of how we erred in 
reviewing the evidence of record or specifically identified any evidence that we did not previously 
consider. The dismissal of the Petitioner's appeal thoroughly addressed the evidence submitted, 
including the letters of support, and described how the evidence did not sufficiently demonstrate her 
eligibility under the relevant criteria. The dismissal also explicitly advised that we reviewed the record 
in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. Stating that we "failed to consider 
documentary evidence" and "incorrectly applied the law and policy" does not establish the Petitioner's 
opinions as factual. The requirements of a motion to reconsider cannot be met by broadly disagreeing 
with our conclusions; the motion must demonstrate how we erred as a matter of law or policy. See 
Matter ofO-S-G-, 24 I&N Dec. at 56-58 (finding that a motion to reconsider is not a process by which 
the party may submit in essence, the same brief and seek reconsideration by generally alleging error 
in the prior decision). 
Regarding Chursov v. Miller, the Petitioner's statement also includes the following: 
To be clear, this means that a Petitioner-Beneficiary should not be required to 
demonstrate extraordinary ability for each separate criterion, but instead that the 
Service finds meeting at least three (3) of the prescribed criteria sufficient to 
demonstrate extraordinary ability. Therefore, it can be stated that the Service wrongly 
represents the standard of sufficiency for each criterion by suggesting that the 
beneficiary must demonstrate extraordinary ability through each criterion in and of 
itself which would be an abuse of discretion by imposing substantive or evidentiary 
requirements set forth in the regulations. 
The reasoning behind the Petitioner's contention here is not clear. The dismissal of the Petitioner's 
appeal explained that, because she did not sufficiently demonstrate that she met at least three of the 
necessary criteria, a final merits decision was not warranted. There was no implication that 
extraordinary ability must be demonstrated under each criterion; the dismissal explained that the 
evidence of record must sufficiently show that the Petitioner has satisfied at least three criteria to then 
receive an evaluation of whether she qualifies as an individual of extraordinary ability. In light of the 
above, we conclude that this motion does not meet all the requirements of a motion to reconsider and 
must therefore be dismissed pursuant to 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
A motion to reopen must state new facts and be supported by documentary evidence. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). Our review on motion is limited to reviewing our latest decision. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(l)(ii). We may grant motions that satisfy these requirements and demonstrate eligibility 
for the requested benefit. See Matter of Coelho, 20 I&N Dec. 464, 473 (BIA 1992) (requiring that 
new evidence have the potential to change the outcome). 
On motion to reopen, the Petitioner submits copies of previously submitted evidence, as well as a brief 
in which she highlights certain aspects of her work history and achievements that she previously 
offered on appeal. Since the motion to reopen does not include new facts or new evidence, the motion 
does not meet the requirements of a motion to reopen and must be dismissed. 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 21, 2024 In Re: 29885612 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a martial artist specializing in judo, seeks first-preference immigrant classification as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act), section 
203(b)(l)(a) , 8 U.S.C. § ll0l(b)(l)(a) . This classification makes immigrant visas available to those 
who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim 
and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established the Petitioner met the initial evidentiary requirements for this classification, she did not 
demonstrate, as required, that she has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the 
small percentage at the very top of her field. Later, the Petitioner filed a combined motion to reopen 
and reconsider, which the Director dismissed. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter afChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter a/Christa's, Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to noncitizens with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation . The noncitizen must seek to enter the United States to continue work in the 
area of extraordinary ability and show that their entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). If a petitioner does not submit this evidence, then they must 
provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three ofthe ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
commercial successes). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner is a martial artist who specializes in judo wrestling. She intends to continue her athletic 
career in the United States and eventually coach national teams competing in worldwide competitions, 
such as the Olympics. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she is required to satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director concluded that the Petitioner met four criteria by 
establishing that she received nationally recognized awards, was a member of an association requiring 
outstanding achievements, was the subject ofpublished material in major media, and participated as a 
judge of the work of others in the same field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv). The 
record supports this conclusion. 
Since the Petitioner demonstrated that she met the initial evidence requirements, the Director 
proceeded to a final merits determination. In a final merits determination, U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services (USCTS) must analyze all of a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the 
totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. In this matter, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not demonstrate she meets this very high standard. 
The Petitioner filed the petition in January 2023. The record shows that the Petitioner has participated 
in competitive martial arts since 2003, receiving dozens of medals at various competition levels as a 
junior and an adult. The Petitioner also competed as part of the I lin the 
2020 Olympics. The Director's denial and motion decisions explained, in part, that the Petitioner did 
not demonstrate recent sustained acclaim because she did not show that she won medals in the years 
following 2019. Specifically, the Director's initial denial informed the Petitioner that photos of what 
she attested to be her judo academy team at the I I in 2022 and her gold medal from 
that tournament were insufficient, without corroborating evidence, to demonstrate her participation in 
the event. On motion, the Petitioner submitted, in part, a letter from the president ofthe judo club that 
hosted the 2022 tournament; this letter attested to her participation and receipt of a gold medal, and it 
2 
listed the names other winners, the referee, and judges. It was accompanied by detailed charts and 
lists showing the names of participants, their attributes, round results, and placings. The Director's 
denial of the motion stated the following with regard to the club president's letter (quoted as written): 
He writes to confirm that the petitioner competed at the event and won a gold medal. 
However, he submitted no documentation of the petitioner's receipt of this medal, and 
simply going on the record without supporting substantive evidence to support 
assertions, are not sufficient in these proceedings. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends the following ( quoted as written): 
users can reject testimonial evidence it finds not credible or contradicted by 
documentary evidence in the administrative record. [ ... ] Here, users did not make 
either finding here, explicitly or implicitly. Furthermore, the record does not show that 
the testimonial evidences were internally inconsistent or contradictory. Therefore, 
Petitioner argues that users must have considered Petitioner's testimonial evidences 
before it made its adverse final decision on Petitioner's r-290B, motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
We agree with the Petitioner's reasoning that the Director should have considered the credibility of 
the club president's letter within the context of the entirety of the evidence submitted; the Director 
should have explained the specific reasons why he did not find the letter probative in the motion 
decision. See 8 e.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). We acknowledge that the Petitioner did not submit 
contemporaneous evidence to demonstrate her participation in the 2022 tournament; however, we take 
administrative notice that an open-source internet search returns images of the tournament's 2022 
medal that reflect the photos the Petitioner submitted ofwhat she attests is her gold medal. The record 
does not contain documentation that would call into question the veracity of the club president's 
detailed letter; therefore, we do not doubt its credibility. 
A letter included with the Petitioner's motion and appeal from the chief secretary of the Mongolian 
Judo Association emphasizes that, if not for the global pandemic and the resulting cancellation of 
several tournaments, the Petitioner would have competed in those tournaments and that she "and other 
athletes ... would have achieved outstanding achievement if the...toumaments were organized through 
the schedule." While we cannot speculate as to whether the Petitioner would have medaled in the 
canceled tournaments, we recognize the Petitioner's rationale that, because many competitions were 
postponed, consideration of her previous athletic record should weigh favorably in her argument of 
having sustained acclaim in her field. 
The record shows that the Petitioner has an extensive history of success in martial arts tournaments; 
she has participated in competitions at the national and international level and has earned fourteen 
bronze, twelve silver, and eleven gold medals at major competitions. Letters from colleagues 
demonstrate her comparably impressive record in terms ofnumbers ofmedals. The record also shows 
that the Petitioner's skills earned her a place on the~----------~ which the record 
demonstrates is a significant accomplishment for judo athletes. 
3 
However, with regard to the remaining evidence ofrecord, we agree with the Director that the weight 
given to evidence depends on the extent to which such evidence demonstrates, reflects, or is consistent 
with the sustained national or international acclaim enjoyed by those at the very top of their field of 
endeavor. A lesser showing would be inconsistent with the regulatory definition of "extraordinary 
ability" as "a level of expertise indicating that the individual is one of that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). For example, the Petitioner 
submitted a 2018 article from a national newspaper in Mongolia in which she is interviewed discussing 
her athletic history. While the article highlights the Petitioner's accomplishments as a martial artist­
even pointing out her wins in areas outside ofjudo, such as sumo wrestling-it would be reasonable 
to expect that an athlete at the top of her field would have received greater media recognition than can 
be attributed to a single article that appeared several years prior to her filing of this petition asserting 
her extraordinary ability. 
As another example, the Petitioner submitted evidence showing that she received a certificate for 
national referee training from the Referee Council under the Mongolian Judo Association. The record 
includes documentation demonstrating that she judged the performance of others in her field at three 
judo events in 2018 and 2021, and a letter of support asserts that she is a "talented and promising 
referee." While this evidence shows that the Petitioner's training and ability in judo qualified her for 
these referee positions, the record does not include documentation detailing the capacity in which these 
events were held or their level ofnotability, such as whether the prestige ofthese events would warrant 
the participation of an athlete of sustained acclaim who is at the top of her field or that other top 
athletes have been involved in these events. Based on the entirety of the record, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that she is an athlete at the top of her field who enjoys sustained acclaim 
for achievements recognized nationally or internationally. 
Just as important as the evidence of record is in evaluating the Petitioner's qualifications as an 
individual of extraordinary ability is the absence of probative evidence in the record regarding her 
future plans to continue competing as a martial arts athlete and to begin a career as a coach. See 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner stated that she intends to 
continue her athletic career in the United States until 2025, simultaneously working as an instructor at 
a judo academy in I I that has offered her a position. The Petitioner stated that she intends to 
eventually open her own academy and use her athletic and coaching experience at the academies to 
become a coach for U.S. national teams. The record, however, does not include evidence to 
demonstrate the Petitioner's ability or experience as a coach. We cannot presume that an individual's 
success as an athlete in a particular field will translate to an extraordinary ability to instruct others to 
perform in that field. While the evidence of record supports a determination that the Petitioner is a 
talented and successful athlete, there is insufficient objective evidence to establish whether or how her 
career as an athlete demonstrates acclaim and recognition in the field as a coach. Matter ofChawathe, 
25 I&N Dec. at 376. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification intended for individuals who are at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or those who achieved, 
but did not maintain, the required national or international acclaim. USCIS has long held that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
4 
On review, the balance of the record demonstrates that the Petitioner is an accomplished martial artist 
who has garnered medals in both national and international competitions. However, the record does 
not contain sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the Petitioner has attained acclaim and recognition 
as an athlete or a coach. She did not demonstrate through "extensive documentation" her experience 
as either an athlete or a coach such that we could conclude that she has a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. As such, the record does not indicate she currently has a degree of 
recognition for her achievements consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute demands. 
Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the 
reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24782988 
Motion on Administrative Appeals Office Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 22, 2023 
Form 1-129, Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker (Extraordinary Ability-0) 
The Petitioner, a former professor at Brown Mackie College, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition in 2012 and dismissed two subsequent 
motions in 2012 and 2013, respectively, concluding that the Petitioner had not satisfied the initial 
evidence requirements for this immigrant visa classification. In 2014, we dismissed the Petitioner's 
appeal of the Director's 2013 decision. We have since dismissed thirteen motions filed by the 
Petitioner since 2014. Most recently, we dismissed his combined motion to reopen and reconsider on 
September 1, 2022. The matter is now before us on a motion to reopen and reconsider our prior 
decision. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon review, we will dismiss the motion to reopen and 
reconsider. 
A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided and be supported by affidavits or other 
documentary evidence. 1 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(2). A motion to reconsider is based on an incorrect 
application of law or policy.2 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3) . We may grant a motion that satisfies these 
requirements and demonstrates eligibility for the requested immigration benefit. 
1 Motions for the reopening of immigration proceedings are disfavored for the same reasons as are petitions for rehearing 
and motions for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence . INS v. Doherty, 502 U.S. 314, 323, (1992) (citing 
INS v. Abudu, 485 U.S. 94, 108 (1988)). A party seeking to reopen a proceeding bears a "heavy burden." Id. at 110. 
2 The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) generally provides that a motion to reconsider asserts that at the time of the 
previous decision, an error was made. It questions the decision for alleged errors in appraising the facts and the law. The 
very nature of a motion to reconsider is that the original decision was defective in some regard. See Matter of Cerna, 20 
I&N Dec. 399,402 (BIA 1991). 
By regulation, the scope of a motion is limited to "the prior decision." 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i). 
Therefore, the filing before us is not a motion to reopen and reconsider the denial of the petition. 
Instead, it is a motion to reopen and reconsider our most recent decision, the September 1, 2022 
dismissal of the Petitioner's thirteenth motion. Therefore, we cannot consider new objections to the 
earlier denial, and the Petitioner cannot use the present filing to make new allegations of error at prior 
stages of the proceeding. 
On motion, the Petitioner submits a statement generally asserting his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability, but does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy error in our prior 
decision. The Petitioner states that President Biden's February 2, 2021 fact sheet ("President Biden 
Outlines Steps to Reform Our Immigration System by Keeping Families Together, Addressing the 
Root Causes of Irregular Migration, and Streamlining the Legal Immigration System,") supports 
reopening these proceedings because it outlines the administration's mission to eliminate barriers to 
immigration and to "not let immigrant visas go to waste." Review of the President's fact sheet shows 
that it announced three steps ( create a task force to reunify families; develop a strategy to address 
irregular migration across the southern border and create a humane asylum system; and restore faith 
in our legal immigration system and promote integration of new Americans) however, none of these 
pertain to the issuance of visas to individuals, like the Petitioner, who are self-petitioning as individuals 
of extraordinary ability. 
Next, the Petitioner asserts that three "Special Masters Lawyers" have reviewed his credentials and 
determined that he meets the criteria found at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner does not 
provide any evidence to establish who these "Special Masters Lawyers" are or how they determined 
his credentials were sufficient to establish his eligibility for an extraordinary ability visa. He also 
requests approval of his visa petition because the "loss of available employment-based immigrant 
visas harms employers and foreign nationals." These statements, however, are insufficient to be 
considered new facts. In addition, these assertions do not pertain to any error of law or policy in our 
prior decision. 
The Petitioner also claims eligibility under the second preference visa classification as a member of 
the professions holding an advanced degree or a noncitizen of exceptional ability seeking a national 
interest waiver and requests that we convert his first preference petition to a second preference national 
interest waiver petition. Again, this request neither establishes a new fact nor establishes that our prior 
decision was based on an error of law or policy. Further, we will not entertain a request for a change 
of classification for a petition that has already been adjudicated. A post-adjudication alteration of the 
requested visa classification constitutes a material change. A petitioner may not make material 
changes to a petition in an effort to make a deficient petition conform to USCIS 
requirements. See Matter of Izwnmi, 22 I&N Dec. 169, 176 (Assoc. Comm'r 1998). 
The Petitioner also cites to chapters 40.9.2(b )(2) and 40.9.2(b )(3) of the Adjudicator's Field Manual 
to assert that he has maintained lawful status in the United States during the pendency of his petition 
and subsequent appeal and motions. As this does not address any of the issues raised in our prior 
decision, or establish a new fact, we will not reopen or reconsider our prior decision on this basis. 
As before, the Petitioner again lists his credentials under the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
However, this recitation of his credentials does not explain or point to any factual, legal or policy error 
2 
in our prior decision. His reference to a social media post by an individual who states he only received 
an elementary school education and request to understand how this individual received an 
extraordinary ability visa, whereas he has seven university degrees, and has been deemed ineligible, 
does not address the basis for our prior decision. As we explained, the fact that he may have seven 
educational degrees is insufficient to establish eligibility unless he establishes how his "academic 
degrees fulfill any specific criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x)." His request for an explanation 
of how someone with less education may have received an immigration benefit is beyond the scope of 
a motion to reopen and reconsider, and does not establish proper cause for granting either motion. 
Finally, we note that the Petitioner has still not addressed our questions surrounding his claimed 
international "Innovare Award" in 2005, as it appears the international version of the award did not 
exist prior to 2010. The Petitioner must resolve this discrepancy in the record with independent, 
objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 591-92 (BIA 
1988). 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(l)(i) limits our authority to reopen or reconsider to instances 
where the Petitioner has shown "proper cause" for that action. Thus, to merit reopening or 
reconsideration, a petitioner must not only meet the formal filing requirements (such as submission of 
a properly completed Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion, with the correct fee), but also show 
proper cause for granting the motion. We cannot grant a motion that does not meet applicable 
requirements. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(4). 
Therefore, we will dismiss the Petitioner's motion to reconsider because he does not establish that we 
erred in our prior decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.5(a)(3). In addition, we will dismiss his motion to 
reopen because he has not provided evidence of new facts related to our prior decision. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.5(a)(2). 
ORDER: The motion to reopen is dismissed. 
FURTHER ORDER: The motion to reconsider is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 22, 2024 In Re: 30186712 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of extraordinary ability in business. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record does not 
establish the Beneficiary received a one-time achievement of a major, internationally recognized 
award. The Director further concluded that the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three 
of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the [ noncitizen] has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field 
through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the [ noncitizen] seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the [noncitizen]'s entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the 10 categories 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
As noted above, the Director concluded 
the record does not establish the Beneficiary received a one­
time achievement of a major, internationally recognized award. The Director farther concluded that 
the record does not satisfy, in the alternative, at least three of the 10 listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner does not overcome the Director's denial for the reasons discussed 
below. 
A. One-Time Achievement of a Major, Internationally Recognized Award 
The 
Director acknowledged that the record contains a copy of a._____________ _, and 
that the Petitioner asserted that it received the award based on the work of the Beneficiary. However, 
the Director explained that "the regulation [at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)] requires that the [B]eneficiary 
be the recipient of a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award." The 
Director noted that the Petitioner, not the Beneficiary, received the award; therefore, the Director 
concluded that the,__ ___________ _. granted to the Petitioner does not establish the 
Beneficiary is the recipient of a one-time achievement that is a major, internationally recognized 
award, as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the award "was given to the [P]etitioner as a direct result of the 
[B]eneficiary's work" and that "the recognition should go to the [B]eneficiary." The Petitioner also 
discusses on appeal how its revenue increased after it hired the Beneficiary, it lists "clients the 
[B]eneficiary has brought to the [P]etitioner," and it discusses other, similar information. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) contemplates an individual with sustained national or 
international acclaim, whose achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, 
demonstrated, in relevant part, by receipt of a one-time achievement of a major, internationally 
recognized award. The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) does not contemplate an award granted to 
an individual's employing entity. Because the Petitioner, not the Beneficiary, received the I II I the award is immaterial to whether the Beneficiary has received a one-time 
achievement of a major, internationally recognized award, as contemplated by the regulation at 
2 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The record does not otherwise establish that the Beneficiary has received a 
one-time achievement as contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria Listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
The Director concluded that the record does not satisfy any of the 10 initial evidentiary criteria, 
specifically addressing the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (ix), and noting that the 
Petitioner abandoned the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) in response to a prior request for 
evidence. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i), (iii), and (ix). The Petitioner does not assert on appeal that the record satisfies any 
of the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), (iv)-(viii), or (x), thereby waiving those potential criteria. 
See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009) (citing Greenlaw v. US., 554 U.S. 
237 (2008) (upholding the party presentation rule)). 
Documentation of the [noncitizen 's] receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
The Director acknowledged that the record contains a copy of the ~---------------' awarded to the Petitioner, discussed above, and "various certificates of achievements issued to the 
[Petitioner] for efforts to export into new international markets." The Director concluded that, because 
neither the award nor the certificates were issued to the Beneficiary, they do not qualify as the 
documentation contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3 )(i). The Director farther noted 
that the record does not establish how the various certificates issued to the Petitioner qualify as the 
type of prizes or awards for excellence contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the award "was given to the [P]etitioner as a direct result of 
the [B]eneficiary's work" and that "the recognition should go to the [B]eneficiary." The Petitioner 
also repeats, verbatim, several paragraphs of the brief that pertain to the one-time achievement 
criterion, noted above. On appeal, the Petitioner does not address the "various certificates of 
achievements issued to the [Petitioner] for efforts to export into international markets" that the 
Director noted. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) contemplates an individual with sustained national or 
international acclaim, whose achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, 
demonstrated by receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for 
excellence in the field of endeavor. The plain language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
does not contemplate an award granted to an individual's employing entity. Because the Petitioner, 
not the Beneficiary, received th_._____________ ____. the award is immaterial to whether 
the Beneficiary has received the type of prize or award contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i). The record does not otherwise establish that the Beneficiary has received lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, as 
contemplated by the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
We need not determine whether the record satisfies the criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (ix) 
because, even if it did, the record would not satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
3 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Accordingly, we reserve our opinion regarding whether the record satisfies the criterion 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (ix). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and 
agencies are not required to make findings on issues the decision ofwhich is unnecessary to the results 
they reach"); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach 
alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary received a one-time achievement or, in the 
alternative, evidence that meets at least three of the 10 criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). As a 
result, we need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. at 25; see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. at 526 
n.7. Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support 
a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the 
classification sought. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the 
required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Beneficiary has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) ofthe Act; 
see also 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
4 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25516529 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 23, 2023 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a musician and maker of musical instruments, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner had not shown that he seeks to enter the United States 
to continue working in his area of expertise. The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation. These individuals must seek to enter the United States to continue wo:rk in 
the area of extraordinary ability, and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit the 
United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement in the form of a major, internationally recognized award. Or the petitioner can submit 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)--{x), including 
items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles. If those standards 
do not readily apply to the individual's occupation, then the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)( 4) allows 
the submission of comparable evidence. 
Once a petitioner has met the initial evidence requirements, the next step is a final merits 
determination, in which we assess whether the record shows sustained national or international 
acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review 
where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, 
considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 
126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijalv. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that he has participated in musical performances and competitions since 2012, 
when he was 14 years old, and that he owns a business in Thailand making musical instruments 
including the phin, an instrument similar to a guitar. The Petitioner studied folk music at I _ University in Thailand, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 2020. The Petitioner 
entered the United States in 2021 as a B-1 nonimmigrant visitor for business, in order to volunteer as 
a musician and music teacher for a Buddhist temple inl I. The Petitioner stated that, since 
his arrival in the United States, he has "been giving free music lessons and traveling to perform." The 
Petitioner has also performed at other cultural events in the United States, including a performance at 
the University of I I where he also worked with students. The 
Petitioner states that he "would like to build a guitar shop ... and a music school," while also 
continuing to volunteer with cultural organizations. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-­
(x). The Petitioner initially submitted a list of ten claims. These claims did not directly correlate to 
the wording of the regulatory criteria, butthe Director concluded thatthe Petitioner's claims fell within 
seven of the criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
In a request for evidence (RFE), the Director stated that the Petitioner did not appear to have made 
claims under the remaining three criteria. The Petitioner did not dispute this conclusion. 
2 
The Director denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had not met any of the ten regulatory 
criteria. On appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding remuneration 
and commercial success, but he maintains that he satisfies the other five claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied one criterion, relating to artistic 
display, at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or intemationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
When determining whether an individual has received lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor, we consider factors such as: 
• The criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; 
• The national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field; and 
• The number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. 
See generally 6 USCISPolicy Manua!F.2 appendix,https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The Petitioner has submitted copies of certificates and letters indicating that he has won prizes at various 
musical competitions in Thailand. Many of these competitions appear to have been local or regional, but 
the Petitioner indicates that at least three of these competitions, in the pong lang form of folk music, were 
at a national level: 
• Second place, Competition, 2018; 
• First place, Competition, 2019; and 
• Thirdplace, Competition,2019. 
The Petitioner submitted photographs of himself holding trophies and certificates, and other photographs 
showing performances, musicians, and award ceremonies. The Petitioner also submitted photocopies of 
several certificates, along with what appear to be English translations. Any document containing foreign 
language must be accompanied by a full English language translation which the translator has certified 
as complete and accurate, and by the translator's certification that he or she is competent to translate from 
the foreign language into English. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(3 ). The translations submitted initially do not 
include the required certifications. 
In the RFE, the Director informed the Petitioner of the requirements for certified translations. The 
Petitioner's response included submitted new translations of some documents, stamped "Certified Correct 
Translation." This summary declaration does not meet the regulat01y requirements listed above. 
In his response to the RFE, the Petitioner stated that his "highest honor" was when he "won the Thailand I He also asserted that his first prize in the Thailand! !Championship 
"was the highest a ward in Thailand in terms of the !competition." The Petitioner 
did not submit objective information about the awards to establish the extent of their national or 
international recognition. 
3 
In the denial notice, the Director concluded that the submitted evidence did not establish that the prizes 
are nationally or internationally recognized. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits properly certified translations of some prize certificates, most of them 
from regional or rovincial events. The hi hest-level certificate indicates that the Petitioner was the 
runner-up in a Several other 
certificates relate to student competitions. The Petitioner did not submit sufficient objective documenta1y 
evidence to show that the prizes are nationally or internationally recognized. Evidence of national or 
international recognition can take different forms. For example, the awarding of a particular prize might 
attract media coverage or notice throughout the field. Without evidence of that recognition, assertions 
about an award' s significance will not suffice to meet the requirements in the regulations. 
The head of the Undergraduate Program at I University College of Music stated that the 
contests were "operated by the Department of Physical Education Ministry of Tourism and 
Sports," but the record does not contain evidence from the awarding entity to provide key information 
about the competitions and prizes. The prizes are from a government entity, and they are named after 
Thai royalty, but without further context and documentation, these factors alone do not establish the 
recognition level of the prizes. 
The Petitioner has not established that the prizes he received were nationally or internationally recognized. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner stated that he received coverage from a newspaper in I I In the denial notice, 
the Director stated that the Petitioner had not submitted a copy of the material. The Petitioner had, 
however, submitted printed screen captures of online articles from Thai Newspaper. To this extent, 
we disagree with the Director's conclusion. Nevertheless, the Petitioner did not establish that Thaz 
Newspaper is a professional or major trade publication or other major media. From the material 
submitted, the intended readership appears to be narrowly focused on Thai-language speakers in the D I I area. Also, the submitted printouts do not identify dates or authors as required by the regulations. 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not submit complete, certified translations of the articles, as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner only submitted translations of the captions to the photographs 
accompanying the articles. The translated captions identify the Petitioner as a volunteer at religious and 
cultural organizations in California and focus on projects he undertook there, including non-musical tasks 
such as building fences. 
On appeal, the Petitioner acknowledges that the articles are "not related to [his] expertise," but he asserts 
that the articles have nevertheless "contributed to the benefit of the public" by drawing attention to the 
temple where he has worked as a volunteer. Whatever secondary effect the articles may have had, the 
Petitioner has not shown that they relate to his work in the field and otherwise meet the regulatory 
requirements. The "extraordinary ability" classification requires a high level ofrecognition, not shown 
in the submitted published materials. 
4 
The Petitioner also submitted screen capture images from several Y ouTube and Facebook videos. The 
Petitioner did not submit transcripts and any necessary English translations, and therefore the evidence 
submitted does not show that the videos are published material about the Petitioner, relating to his work 
in the field for which he seeks classification. Also, he did not submit evidence such as view counts to 
establish that the Y ouTube channels and Face book pages that carried the videos qualify as professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. 
The published material should be about the person, relating to the person's work in the field, not just 
about the person's employer or another organization that the person is associated with. Evidence of 
published material should establish that the online or print circulation or viewership is high compared to 
other statistics and show who the intended audience is, as well as the title, date, andauthorof themate1ial. 
See generally 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
We note that the screen capture printout from one Facebook video is stamped "Certified Complete 
Translation," with no indication of what has been translated. The screen image shows no text except for 
a logo, and the English-language passage below the image is a description of the interview rather than a 
transcript. 
The Petitioner has not established that he has been the subject of published material in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 
Evidence of the alien 's parlicipation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an alliedjield of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner initially stated that he satisfies this criterion because his handmade instruments "are being 
used in regional, national and international.__ _________ music concerts," and because 
he is "recognized as a top 5" musician. The Petitioner did not explain how this information shows that 
he has participated as a judge of the work of others. The Petitioner also stated: "I have evaluate[d] my 
work as national level quality according [to] national competition standards." However, the regulation 
refers to judging the work of others, rather than evaluating one's own work. 
In the RFE, the Director stated that the Petitioner had not identified any qualifyingjudging activity. The 
Petitioner's response to the RFE did not address this issue. As a result, the Director concluded that the 
Petitioner had not submitted evidence of his participation as a judge of the work of others. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states "I agree with this verdict, but I appeal that I have been invited to serve as 
a folk music specialist, performer and educator fotj I students ... and able to control a band." The 
Petitioner cites a letter from an adjunct assistant professor at who stated that the Petitioner "can 
direct a traditional ensemble of instruments." The letter does not indicate that the Petitioner acted as a 
judge, for the purpose of evaluation, rather than as a conductor whose function was to lead the performers. 
We agree with the Director thatthe Petitioner has not submitted evidence of his participation as a judge 
of the work of others. 
5 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3Xviii). 
Letters from employers, attesting to an employee's role in the organization, must contain detailed and 
probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization or 
establishment was leading or critical. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix. 
The Petitioner initially stated that he "was a team manager in thel !Organization," where his 
"roles include[ d] performing, designing and building [the] stage for the artists of thel I I Concert," as well as fund raising. The Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish the 
distinguished reputation of the organization. 
In the RFE, the Director requested further evidence to establish both the leading or critical nature of the 
Petitioner's roles with various organizations, and the distinguished reputations of those organizations. 
The Petitioner's response included letters and photographs relating to his various past activities, but the 
Petitioner did not explain how these materials meet the regulatory requirements. The Director therefore 
concluded that the Petitioner had not satisfied the criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner states that he has "worked with large organizations, including The size 
alone of the organization, however, does not demonstrate the Petitioner worked in a leading or critical 
role for an organization with a distinguished reputation. Using the Petitioner's work at as an 
example, the record indicates that he taught students as a guest instructor and performed with music 
students. The Petitioner does not explain how these activities amounted to a leading or critical role for I I and he does not establish that an individual class or musical ensemble at is, itself, an 
organization or establishment with a distinguished reputation. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, 
supra, at F.2 appendix, which indicates that, when an individual's role is not leading or critical for an 
entire organization, we must consider whether "the department or division for which the person holds or 
held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation." 
The Petitioner has not met his burden of proof to show that he has performed in leading or critical roles 
for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 
We agree with the Director's conclusion that the Petitioner has not met at least three of the required 
criteria. This conclusion determines the outcome of the appeal. Therefore, we reserve consideration 
of the separate question of whether the Petitioner has submitted clear evidence that he is coming to 
the United States to continue work in the area of expertise as required by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(5). See 
INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not 
generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516,526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on 
appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Neve1iheless, we have 
6 
reviewed all the evidence in the record, and it does not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has not submitted extensive documentation, showing recognition of his work at the level of sustained 
national or international acclaim. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The record contains information about the Petitioner's education in Thailand and his volunteer work and 
involvement with cultural efforts in the United States. But the record does not show that the Petitioner is 
recognized for his work at a national or international level. The Petitioner's evidence does not meet the 
very high standards described in section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and the regulations at 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3). 
The Petitioner has won prizes in national-level competitions, but the record does not provide enough 
infmmation about those competitions and prizes. We take note of "limitations on competitors"; see 
genera lly 6 USCJS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 appendix, because those limitations may exclude the 
most acclaimed figures in a given field. Fully-trained and accomplished musicians with long-established 
careers are, by definition, excluded from competitions limited to students and young adults. Also, from 
the limited information provided, it appears that the prizes were awarded to entire bands or orchestras. 
Such recognition does not necessarily translate into acclaim for individual members of the performing 
group. The statute requires "extensive documentation," and the regulations call for a diverse variety of 
evidence. 
Events other than competitions can contribute to national or international acclaim, but the information 
presented to us lacks context. For example, the Petitioner indicates that he appeared on television in 
Thailand, portraying a musician, but he did not establish the nature or extent of this appearance. The 
record does not show whether he was he a principal character, or performing in the background because 
a particular scene was set at an event with live music, such as a party. Also, he did not show that the 
programs' producers selected him because he was a recognized musician, or that his television 
appearances resulted in demonstrable acclaim orrecognition afterwards. 
The Petitioner asserts "there are few people" who have reached his level of expertise. The record lacks 
sufficient evidence to support this conclusion; it provides no basis for comparison between the Petitioner 
and others in the same field. Furthermore, the statute requires sustained national or international acclaim, 
rather than attaining a particular level of skill, ability, or talent. The Petitioner has submitted letters from 
individuals close to him, praising his skills and achievements, but he has not shown that these opinions 
represent a wider consensus in the field, amounting to sustained national or international acclaim. 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. We will 
therefore dismiss the appeal. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6081405 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an actress, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements of at least three of the criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x). 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner performs as an actress with theater ensembles in I I as well in television and 
movie productions, and intends to continue in this career if granted lawful permanent resident status. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to commercial success in the performing arts. We disagree, 
and will withdraw the Director's decision regarding that criterion as detailed below. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that she also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to five other criteria. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that she does not meet the initial evidentiary 
requirement of three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The evidence establishes that the Petitioner received a 20 J 7-1 81 1 ~ IA ward in the category 
of j !" for her work inl I for the0Theatre Company 
in! I. However, the Director noted in her decision that this award is regional in nature, and the 
evidence indicates that consideration for the I . I Awards is limited to productions within 
the city limits otj I 1 On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that a national or international award for 
theater productions does not exist, and that "the most renowned award, the Tony award, is also a 
regional award." However, it is not geographic scope of a prize or award that is qualifying under this 
criterion, but its recognition at the national or international level. As the Petitioner notes, the Tony 
awards are renowned and recognized far beyond the borders of New York. The evidence regarding 
thQ awards is limited to publications based in the I O I area, and there is no indication of their 
recognition in the theater community at the national or international level. We note that even the 2004 
article from The Guardian which proclaims thatl I is ' ~-------------~ 
1 While the Director's decision states that consideration is limited to "productions within 50 miles o~ !s city center," 
we refer to Exhibit 2 of the Pep.ti.ill;ier's response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE), which appears to be Section 
IV of the official rules for theLJAwards. 
2 
makes no mention of the Oawards. And the article which appeared in La Nacion in Argentina, 
further discussed below, mentions theDawards but focuses on the Petitioner's career and receipt of 
the award. Accordingly, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or _fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner bases her claim to this criterion on her nomination and selection as an ensemble member 
ofl I In response to the Director's request for evidence (RFE) and again on appeal, she 
submits a copy the ensemble's membership criteria, which primarily include previous work with the 
company and the support of three active ensemble members. It further states that election to 
membership requires 75% of the vote of the active members. This evidence does not demonstrate that 
previous service as an actor withl I is an outstanding achievement, or that the active 
members who nominate and vote on membership are recognized national or international experts. 
Therefore, this criterion has not been met. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In his decision, the Director incorrectly states that neither the text nor an English translation or an 
article appearing in the Argentine newspaper La Nacion were provided. To the contrary, this evidence 
was included in the Petitioner's response to the Director's RFE, and establishes that the article is about 
her and her work as an actress. Additional evidence submitted with this article is sufficient to establish 
that La Nacion is a major medium in Argentina. 
The record also includes evidence of articles published in the I ~-I I, 
and other I !publications. As noted by the Petitioner, many of these include mention of 
the petitioner and comment upon her performance in a particular role. In her appeal brief: the 
Petitioner focuses on one district court decision, Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F.Supp.2d. 535, 545 
(S.D.N.Y. 2012), which was cited by the Director in his decision in support of his finding that articles 
about a play in which she performed are not about the Petitioner. The Petitioner notes that the 
petitioner in that case was an Iranian table tennis player, and that the comparison with her petition 
ignores the collaborative nature of theater. However, the other district court decision referenced in the 
Director's decision, Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at*l, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) 
presents a similar instance of an actor in a Cirque du Soleil show and makes a similar finding. 
Therefore, we agree with the Director's statement of the general proposition that articles about a show 
are not about an individual actor in that show for purposes of this criterion. 
We note that several of the articles presented here, however, focus on the Petitioner's role in ._I __ __. I t in which she played the title role and was one of two actors apfearing on stage. For example, 
an article date~2017 and published in thel O _ reviews the play, and while it 
describes the ~atre, the playwright and the plot of the play, several paragraphs include 
3 
mentions of the Petitioner and praise her performance. In addition, another article published in the 
same newspaper onl 12017, '~--------------~ includes a separate 
paragraph about each of the ten actors named, including the Petitioner. The record also includes 
evidence which establishes that the I I is considered to be a major medium. 2 As such, 
based upon our review of the qualifying articles described above, we withdraw the Director's decision 
regarding this criterion and find that Petitioner has submitted evidence to meet its requirements. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must establish both the distinguished reputation of a certain 
organization or establishment and the nature of the role they played for that organization or 
establishment. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is (or was) a leader. A 
title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is ( or was), in fact, leading. 
The Petitioner references several reference letters from leaders at theater companies where she has 
performed as an actress, and states that she has "performed leading roles as an actress is [sic] several I I orranizatlons with a distinguished reputation." One such letter was submitted by the artistic 
director of Theatre, who states that "every actor on our stage plays a leading role in our 
organization ... " While this letter indicates that the Petitioner made contributions to the theatre's 
performance of I I in 2016 by translating text and songs intol I and performing them on 
stage, it does not suggest that she played a leading role forl frheatre's overall organization. 
Actors are undoubtedly necessary for theatre productions, but this letter does not establish that the 
Petitioner was a leader in the company's overall organization. 
Similarly, a letter from the executive director ofl !Theatre Company notes the Petitioner's work 
inl I in which she performed ~-----------------~ The 
Petitioner clearly played a leading role in this production, which was well-received and awarded, and 
the executive director notes that she also assisted in fond-raising for the company and "collaborates 
with the company in ongoing new-play devropment work ... " However, here again there is no 
indication that she served as a leader for Theatre Company overall. 
Another reference letter was submitted by the artistic director of I I Theatre Company's 
young adult program, who notes that the Petitioner's bilingual ability made her "an essential part of 
makingl I a success with our student audience." But the Petitioner's performance of an 
important role in one ofl !Theatre Company's productions does not demonstrate that she 
played a leading role for the company. 
The Petitioner states in her brief that actors are not employees of theatres and have no decision-making 
authority in the operation of these organizations, but nevertheless "are instrumental in establishing the 
reputation of a theatre." She farther asserts that our interpretation of the regulation "would prevent 
any theatre actor from being able to meet this criteria [sic]." However, we note that under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4), where a petitioner can establish that the criteria do not apply to their 
2 Similar evidence was not submitted about thel land other periodicals and websites in which articles 
about the Petitioner appeared. Those articles therefore do not qualify under this criterion. 
4 
occupation, they may submit comparable evidence. Here, the Petitioner has claimed and submitted 
evidence under six criteria, and has not claimed that evidence of her leading performances as an actress 
should be considered to be comparable to that required under this criterion. Further, while the evidence 
does establish that the Petitioner is a member of at least one organization,I I it does not 
demonstrate that she plays a leading or critical role, beyond that of other ensemble members, for that 
organization. Accordingly, we find that the Petitioner does not meet this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office 
receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
As noted above, the Director found that the Petitioner meets this criterion. Altougl he did not explain 
the basis for this finding, we note that the record includes two letters, from Theatre Company 
andl I which describe the relative commercial success of two productions in which the 
Petitioner played a leading role. Specifically, the letter fromOindicates thatl I generated 
single ticket sales in excess of double the average of the three other productions in that season, while 
I I indicates thaU learned more than triple the revenue of its next highest 
grossing production for the year. However, we note that the record indicates that these are both 
relatively small theater companies, and that the Petitioner does not compare the figures referenced, 
$42,346 and $81,940 respectively, to the gross receipts of productions by other small theater 
companies, larger regional companies or Broadway productions. The evidence is therefore 
insufficient to establish the Petitioner's commercial success relative to others involved in similar 
pursuits in the performing arts. 3 We withdraw the Director's finding regarding this criterion and find 
that it has not been met. 
III. CONCLUSION 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner meets the requirements of only one of the criteria 
claimed. Although she claims to meet an additional criteria on appeal, relating to contributions of 
major significance, we need not reach this additional issue. Because the Petitioner cannot meet the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.4 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted With Certain I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14., pg. 12 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https: / /www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/P o licyManual.html. 
4 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach). 
5 
has not shown that the significance of her work as an actress is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has 
garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and that she is one of the small percentage who 
has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7533673 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a ballet dancer and master teacher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner 
established that he satisfied only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he meets five 
additional criteria and is qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a ballet dancer and master ballet teacher who trained at the Institute of State Ballet 
of I I His biography indicates that he has performed in European theaters with Italian ballet 
companies, as well as in Italian films and television shows. In addition to his work as a performer, he 
founded a youth dance competition, an agency for performing artists, a musical theater company, and 
a performing arts training center in his native Italy, and has worked as a master teacher with several 
ballet schools in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met one of the evidentiary 
criteria, relating to judging the work of others in his field. The Petitioner provided evidence that he 
has served on a judging panel for the.__ _____ ___. youth dance competition and therefore we 
agree with the Director that this criterion was met. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets five additional evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), discussed below. 1 After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that 
the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
1 Previously, the Petitioner also claimed to meet the criterion relating to commercial success in the perf01ming arts at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.S(h)(x). The Director found that he not submit sufficient evidence to establish that he met this criterion, and 
the Petitioner does not contest this issue on appeal. Therefore, we deem the issue to be waived. See, e.g., Matter of M-A­
S-, 24 T&N Dec. 762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
2 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that his prizes or awards are nationally 
or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 Relevant considerations 
regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but 
are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or international 
significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize recipients as well 
as any limitations on competitors. 3 
The Petitioner claims that he has received two qualifying awards, including a 1991 I I A ward." 
The Petitioner submitted a photograph which, according to the index accompanying the initial 
evidence, depicts him receiving the award statue from presenter! I He also submitted what 
appears to be a poster or flier advertising the 1 1'91 Sport Spettacolo" award ceremony, but this 
evidence was not accompanied by an English translation. Any document in a foreign language must 
be accompanied by a full English language translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must 
certify that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is 
competent to translate from the foreign language into English. Id. While the poster includes the 
Petitioner's name among a list of individuals, all of whom appear to be identified as performing artists, 
it is not clear whether those listed were award winners, the scheduled performers at the award 
ceremony, or both. The Petitioner asserts that it is a "public announcement regarding the awarding of 
the prizes issued by theLJorganization," but without an English translation, we cannot determine 
whether the evidence supports this claim. 
In response to a request for evidence, the Petitioner provided a biography forl I which 
indicates that he is an Italian television ersonality. The Petitioner also provided a letter froml I 
I I president of,___..----,------ I ~ states that thd I club organized the 
"International Award,____~ from 1984 to 1992, and states that "[i]n those years thd I 
AW ARD was in Italy, the most important event, which rewarded the most important personalities in 
the world of art, culture, entertainment, politics and society." He further states that the winners were 
national and international celebrities and provides the names of athletes, performing artists, journalists, 
scientists and others who had won the award. Finally,! lstates that at the time he received 
the award, the Petitioner had just participated in the Italian television program I I and 
that "it was a great opportunity for us to recognize this I IA WARD to the young and talented 
dancer." 
While the untranslated poster or flier for the award event appears to identify ~------~ I t as one of three organizers of the I I award, I ts letter alone does not provide 
sufficient evidence regarding the background of the award or the awarding entities to establish that it 
is a nationally or internationally recognized prize for excellence in the Petitioner's field. If the award 
is or was in fact considered one of the most important awards that can be earned by artists and 
entertainers in Italy as stated b~ l it is reasonable to expect independent evidence regarding 
the award and the national recognition associated with it. Although the Petitioner indicated that the 
referenced poster or flier served as a "public announcement" of the award winners, it appears to 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
3 Id. 
3 
advertise the award ceremony; it does not establish that the award was nationally publicized or 
recognized. 
The Petitioner also P.rovided evidence that he received a .__ _________ ____,Award in 2007, 
which translates to '---------~ A ward." The Petitioner submitted a photograph of him 
receiving the award, copies of posters or fliers for the awards ceremonies held in the years 2007 ~h 2012, as well as a letter fro~ lwho indicates that he co-founded thel I 
L__J award in 2007 "to enhance and reward important personalities of our Italian and international 
society recognizing their commitment and talent in their work."I I confirms the Petitioner's 
receipt of the award and states he was recognized "for his incredible career, which had seen him star 
in theater, cinema and television." 
The Petitioner also provided two published articles that provide additional background regarding the 
,..a.-"l'-'J.L....___,LI.J.l.........._~.__.:u..._........,c.J.L.J'-"-.LLLJ'-"·....,, u.........u,.J..LJ..J.j. an unidentified source is titled L I 
'-----r--------.----------~ Award' to I I" Accordini to the article, 
the .__ ____ ~award is "aimed at assigning recognition to personalities" in politics, film, music, 
science, literature and the arts, "in partnership with Region, Province, and Community o~ I 
that have been the subject of r h blic agencies." The Petitioner also 
submitted an article titled .__----~--------r-1-----'- ........ ....._.......,~ebsite Brindisi Sera 
(www.brindisisera.it) which announced the winners of the 2009.__ ____ ~ award. Based on the 
information in the article, the prize is awarded to recipients born in the southern Italian city ofl I 
or greater! I region, who have achieved success in the arts, business, athletics and other fields. 
The submitted evidence reflects that the.__ _____ ~award is intended to recognize natives of 
I I or the I lregion who have gone on to achieve prominence in their respective fields. 
However, the Petitioner has not provided sufficient evidence to establish that thel I is a 
nationally or internationally-recognized prize or award for excellence. While the Petitioner claims on 
appeal that the Petitioner provided "undisputed evidence of media coverage" of his receipt of both 
awards, as noted above, the record does not contain such evidence. The media coverage related to the I I award is not from 2007, the year in which he was a recipient. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, noting that, while he provided 
many articles about projects and productions with which he was associated, the articles were not about 
him and only briefly mentioned his involvement. Further, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted three articles that were about him and his work in the field, as required by the 
language of this criterion, but determined that he did not provide evidence that the articles appeared 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
4 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he submitted two articles from La Gazetta del Mezzogiorno 
and an article from Danza Si that satisfy all requirements of this criterion. The first of the two articles 
from La Gazetta def Mezzogiorno was published inl 12009 and includes an interview with 
the Petitioner about the musical I I performed by I I The second article from this newspaper is about the Benefici,_a-ry_'_s-re_c_e-ip_t_o_f_a_n__, 
unidentified award and briefly discusses the highlights of his career; however, the Petitioner provided 
a partially illegible photocopy of the original article which does not identify the date of publication or 
the author of the article. 4 
Since La Gazetta del Mezzogiorno is a daily newspaper and not a professional or trade publication, 
the Petitioner must submit evidence to demonstrate that it qualifies as "major media" in Italy. Evidence 
of published material in a major media publication should establish that the circulation is high 
compared to other circulation statistics. 5 The Petitioner has relied in part on a translated Wikipedia 
page for La Gazetta del Mezzogiorno in support of its claim that this newspaper qualifies as a major 
medium, consistent with the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) . We note that Wikipedia is an 
online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity 
of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia (last visited Jan. 10, 2020), https://en.wikipedia.org 
/wiki/Wikipedia: General disclaimer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). The Petitioner 
also provided what appears to be a page from the newspaper's press kit which provides an "average 
annual circulation" figure for 201 7 and states that it is "one of the oldest Italian newspapers." However 
the Petitioner does not include comparative data reflecting how the circulation of La Gazetta del 
Mezzogiorno compares to that of other daily newspapers in Italy. Without this context, we cannot 
determine that this newspaper is recognized as a major medium. 
As noted, the Petitioner indicates that his 1991 interview with the monthly dance newspaper Danza Si 
also satisfies the published materials criterion. The interview is about the Petitioner and his work in 
the field, but we agree with the Director that the Petitioner did not establish that Danza Si is a 
professional or major trade publication or other major medium. A screenshot of the publication's 
website indicates that the DanzaSi Cultural Association was established in 1990 and published its first 
"monthly magazine" in March 1990 as "the only one in the Italian publishing scene dealing with dance 
but from the point of view of the operators." The record does not contain additional information 
regarding the circulation of the publication or its intended audience in support of the Petitioner's claim 
that it a professional or major trade publication or major media. 
Finally, the Director determined that an article published in Il Corsivo: Luci Della Ribalta is about the 
Petitioner and his work in the field. We agree, but, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner did not 
submit evidence to establish that this publication is a professional or major trade publication or other 
major media, and the Petitioner has not referenced this article or publication on appeal. 
Therefore, for the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not submit evidence that satisfies this 
criterion. 
4 The Petitioner's response to the RFE included a third article titled.__ _____________ __, which 
is about him and his career as a dancer. The Petitioner states that the article appeared in La Gazetta de! Mezzogiorno, but 
the article does not identify the name of the publication, the date, or the author of the material. The Petitioner does not 
reference this article on appeal. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra at 7. 
5 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have significantly impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
Initially, the Petitioner claimed to meet this criterion based on the following: (1) he founded the first 
musical performing arts training center inl I Italy, a musical performing arts company that 
performed original works, a youth dance competition, and a performing arts agency to represent elite 
European dancers; and (2) he directed, produced, and choreographed original work for live 
performance and television. While the Petitioner submitted evidence regarding his involvement in the 
referenced projects, the evidence did not address how any of these activities were both original and 
significantly influential in the field of dance. 
The Petitioner also submitted 12 testimonial letters praising his abilities as a dancer, teacher, and 
choreographer, but few of these even mentioned the original contributions referenced above. 6 The 
Petitioner submitted a letter froml I director ofl I a Canadian dance 
comp n es that the Pet1t10ner was "the first to organize a dance competition 
called and the winners received the opportunity to study dance in America." 
Another letter, from of indicates that his New York-based dance 
program artnered with the competition and notes the Petitioner also directs 
the '~-.----..,..--------~·" However, neither! I nor I I comment 
on how either of these endeavors ( a dance competition and a musical theatre group) represent an 
original contribution of major significance in dance. While both endeavors offered artistic 
development and performance opportunities to dancers inl l Italy, the record does not reflect 
how the Petitioner's work was original or how it significantly or widely impacted his field. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner has emphasized that he is well known for teaching the i I 
ballet technique in its purest form, noting that his teaching "has helped I I reach thousands and 
thousands of students and dancers worldwide." Further, the Petitioner stated that"[ s ]ince it is the purest 
form of the art itself, this contribution of the field encourages traditional forms of dance to reemerge." 
Some of the submitted letters mention the Petitioner's expertise in the I !technique, but they do 
not demonstrate how his technique is original or how he has used it to make a contribution of major 
significance to the field. For example Director of the ~----------~ 
states that her dance school uses methods based on the~~ _ __,technique and notes that it is difficult 
to find al ~trained instructor who has the Petitioner's extensive experience in both teaching and 
performin~. Similarly,! I founder ofthe~------~Academy, states that the Russian I [method used at her school is "known to be the most powerful and effective technique in ballet 
training." She notes that the method is mainly used in ballet schools in the former Soviet Union, noting 
that few U.S. schools use the method "due to lack of teachers and knowledge." She praises the 
Petitioner's teaching and choreography, and mentions that he has been teaching the highest level of 
6 Although we highlight only select letters in this discussion, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
classes at her school. Most of the other letters mention the I I technique only in passing or not 
at all, although they generally praise the Petitioner's technique, teaching, and artistic abilities. 
The Director determined that while the evidence demonstrated that the Petitioner had impacted the 
dance students he taught, he had not demonstrated widespread implementation of his techniques or an 
original contribution of major significance in the field. Rather, the Director found that he had "refined 
and built on existing traditions." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion as a dancer and master instructor of the I I technique he learned at a prestigious dance school inl I Although he did not create 
the teaching method, he states that he "does teach the purest form of it and accordingly, has contributed 
artistically and athletically in this field of dancing." In addition, the Petitioner maintains that his 
"teaching of the purest form ofl I has revolutionized dance," and continued the legacy of the 
method, "a feat no other dance instructor can claim." 
The Petitioner emphasizes that the submitted letters from dance instructors "attest to his highest 
instructor and his abilities in teaching and dancing I O l" As noted, only two of the submitted 
letters discuss thel !teaching tradition, and both are from instructors who used the method in 
their schools prior to hiring the Petitioner. While the submitted letters highly praise the Petitioner's 
abilities as a dancer and instructor, they do not contain specific, detailed information explaining the 
significant influence his ballet and teaching career have had on the overall field, and they do not 
support the Petitioner's own claims that he "revolutionized dance" or that there is "no other dance 
instructor" capable of teaching th~ I method to the next generation of ballet dancers. Letters 
that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and 
its impact on subsequent work add value. 7 On the other hand, letters that lack specifics and use 
hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form 
the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 Moreover, USCIS need not accept primarily conclusory 
statements. 1756, Inc. v. The US. Atty Gen., 745 F. Supp. 9, 15 (D.C. Dist. 1990). 
Here, the evidence establishes that the Petitioner has been a successful professional dancer and 
instructor whose traditional teaching method is valued and sought after by ballet schools. However, 
for the reasons discussed above, considered both individually and collectively, the Petitioner has not 
shown that he has made original contributions of major significance in the field. 
Evidence of the display of the individual's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion, emphasizing that it is "limited to the 
visual arts" and that the Petitioner "has not created tangible pieces of art that were on display at artistic 
exhibitions and showcases." We disagree with the Director's determination that the plain language of 
the regulation renders this criterion applicable only to visual artists. The regulation requires only that 
the work displayed be a given petitioner's own work product and that the venues at which the 
7 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8-9. 
8 Id. at 9. 
7 
individual's work was displayed be artistic exhibitions or showcases. 9 As certain exhibitions or 
showcases featuring performing artists meet the plain language of this regulation, the Director should 
have considered the submitted evidence. Upon review, the Petitioner has provided evidence of his 
stage performances as a principal ballet dancer in productions at various European venues. We find 
the evidence sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
As it relates to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, 
with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding 
a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organizations or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical.10 Finally, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) requires the organizations or 
establishments to have a distinguished reputation, which is marked by eminence, distinction, or 
excellence. 11 
The Director found that the Petitioner did not meet this criterion because, although he played a role as 
the founder or co-founder of various groups such as thel I and the 
~-~--~------ he did not provide evidence to demonstrate the distinguished re12utation 
of these organizations. The Director also acknowledged the Petitioner's involvement with the[ I I I but found that he did not provide detailed and probative 
information that specifically addressed how his role was leading or critical for this organization. 
Finally, the Director found that although the record demonstrated the Petitioner's roles in various 
dance productions, he did not demonstrate how shows and productions qualify as "organizations and 
establishments." 
On appeal, counsel asserts that organizations founded or co-founded by the Petitioner, including 
~ I the and the youth dance competition I "have garnered widespread fame by producing and discovering many talented 
dance students that have gone on to do great things." He points to the previously submitted testimonial 
letters and published media in support of this claiu,.,__.......,......_........,u..u. .................. '1..-.QY..i....,,.,,.'L...l,2;......,eral newspaper 
articles that covered upcoming local performances of and one article 
that mentions the second edition of the ~-----~competition as a "regional competition" 
open to ballet schools in I O I and "one of the most stimulating opportunities for young local 
talents." This evidence is insufficient to establish that these organizations enjoy a distinguished 
~on, and we note that the submitted media coverage does not reference! I 
L____J; at all. 
9 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 9-10 (stating that officers should use the common 
dictionary definitions of "exhibition" and "showcase" in evaluating this criterion, and indicating that a "showcase" is "a 
setting, occasion, or medium for exhibiting something or someone, especially in an attractive or favorable aspect" 
(emphasis added)). 
10 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
11 Id. at 10-11. 
8 
Further, even if we determined that these organizations have a distinguished reputation, the Petitioner 
has not submitted letters from representatives of these entities discussing his leading or critical role, 
nor has he submitted organizational charts or other evidence that would independently confirm his 
position and placement in the organizations' hierarchies. The Petitioner submits secondary evidence 
that mentions his leadership role with these groups, but this evidence cannot substitute for letters from 
his employers or colleagues describing his role within these organizations. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.S(g)(l) 
(stating that evidence of experience 'shall' consist ofletters from employers). 
The Petitioner also emphasizes his role as a "Coordinator" with the Italian performing arts association 
I I The Petitioner submitted: (1) a~ 2013 blo article i · , · hat I I took 
over as coordinator of the dance divisio~ of and following the Petitioner's 
resignation; and (2) a letter froml IPresiden who indicated that the Petitioner 
"has been a member of our Union, in the region o~~~~an ~--~ from 2010 to 2013," and "was 
chosen as the I I inl I 2012 and held the job until the end oc=]2013 when 
he resigned."! I states that "thanks to his constant effort and his initiative the number of 
members in the department of dance grew and reached many objectives in that sector." I Is 
letter is vague and it does not mention the Petitioner's role as "coordi~ Further, he does not 
describe the specific duties and functions the Petitioner performed for L_J and does not explain 
with specificity how th~oner performed either a leading role or a critical role that was of 
significant importance to L_j' outcome or activities. 
The Petitioner also maintains that he "submitted over ten supporting letters from various dance 
teachers, companies, and officials that all attest to [his] critical role in either their dance school or a 
reputable local dance school that he has taught at." Ty referenced letrrs do not establish how the 
Petitioner's role has been critical to the dance schools . .__ ____ ___. mentions that the Petitioner 
"is a definite asset" to her school and mentions the success of a particular student he taught, but she 
does not explain in what specific~ has performed or how he has contributed in a significant way 
to her school. I I ofl__J Dance Center indicates that the Petitioner taught two summer 
intensive programs at her studio, and states that he "has made such a huge impact on his students." I I art director for I I School for the Performing Arts indicates that the 
Petitioner has been invited to teach master classes, workshops and summer intensive classes, and states 
that "our ballet students are thriving under his tutelage." While these and other letters mention that 
the Petitioner's instruction has improved the performance of individual students, they do not support 
the Petitioner's claim that he has performed in a leading or critical role for dance schools in the United 
States. Further, the Petitioner did not submit evidence to establish the distinguished reputation of the 
American schools where he has provided his services as an instructor. 
In addition, the Petitioner maintains that he "has submitted a number of documents that pertain to his 
critical role in many productions, fashion shows, and musical productions," but he specifically 
references only a 20141 lfashion show, indicating that he served as choreographer for the event. 
However, we agree with the Director's determination that serving a lead or critical role in a discrete 
event or production does not establish that one has held a lead or critical role for an "or anization or 
establishment." The Petitioner submitted an article that appeared on the website o . ......., ....... ~------' 
inOrtaly, announcing thel I fashion show held at the hotel in,__ _ _,2014. The 
article indicates that thel lcorps de ballet would perform at the event, "choreographed by I I, and supervised by [the Petitioner]." While the Petitioner might have held an 
9 
important role in supervising the ballet performance held at this particular! I event, the record 
does not establish that this fashion show was an "organization or establishment," nor does it contain, 
for example, a letter from I I attesting to the critical role the Petitioner performs for that 
organization. 
Finally, we acknowledge that with respect to this and other criteria, the Petitioner refers to several 
non-precedent decisions concerning other petitioners who have appealed the denial of their 
extraordinary ability petitions. The referenced decisions were not published as a precedent and 
therefore does not bind USCIS officers in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Non­
precedent decisions apply existing law and policy to the specific facts of the individual case, and may 
be distinguishable based on the evidence in the record of proceedings, the issues considered, and 
applicable law and policy. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
B. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner received 0-1 status, a classification reserved for 
nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 nonimmigrant 
visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude USCIS from denying 
an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard -statute, regulations, 
and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are correctly denied after USCIS approves prior 
nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 (D.D.C. 2003); 
IKEA US v. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999); Fedin Bros. Co., Ltd. v. Sava, 724 
F. Supp. 1103, 1108 (E.D.N.Y. 1989), ajfd, 905 F. 2d 41 (2d. Cir. 1990). Furthermore, our authority 
over the USCIS service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable 
to the relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. Louisiana Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 
98-2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
10 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
11 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19496791 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , an orthopaedic scholar, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to dete1mine whether the factto be proven is probably 
true." MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), and scholarly articles at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3 )(vi). However, the Director concluded that the Petitioner did not show that he garnered 
sustained national or international acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field 
of expertise, demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the 
field. On appeal, we will review the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits 
determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,EvaluationofEvidenceSubmittedwith Ce1tainFormI-l 40Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator ·s Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 20 I 0), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/H1MUPolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extra ordinary ability under section 2 03(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 
international acclaim, 2 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
At initial filing, the Petitioner provided a statement indicating: 
For the past six years I have been actively involved in the study of Orthopaedic Surgery 
with a focus in sp01is medicine which includes the treatment ofl I disorders. 
Although medical school has a broadly focus curriculum I is an extremely 
competitive institution at which I was fortunate enough to be accepted. Since I 
matriculated, I have honed my studies in the field of sports medicine .... 
Furthermore my background, educational career, and research endeavors afforded me 
admission t School of Business at al I business school in the 
U.S., where I have been studying to earn my Master of Business Administration 
(MBA). This has further developed my leadership skills, knowledge of healthcare 
economics as well as the ability to improve the business and operational side of 
medicine especially as it relates to Orthopaedic Sports Medicine. I have been able to 
further the science as well as business of __ care in the U.S. with an eye towards 
both cost containment and meaningful patient care .... 
At the time of the initial filing of the petition, as indicated above, the Petitioner currently pursues an 
MBA degree atl land previously attended! for a bachelor of 
science degree. Moreover, the record reflects that the Petitioner presently serves as a preceptor for 
first year medical students at the School of Medicine atl land conducted an 
orthopaedic surgery clerkship a articipated as a research coordinator for sp01is medicine 
atl I General Hospital as part of his medical school training. Although the 
Director determined that the Petitioner has received awards, garnered published material about him, 
judged others, and authored scholarly articles, the record does not demonstrate that he enjoys a "career 
of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990). 
In 2016 and 20 I 7, the Petitioner received scholarships from the Government 
of the Republic of 1 I The record contains a letter from president of the fund, 
stating that "[t]he aim of the Fund I I is to recognize talented, successful and diligent 
young people and provide them with the necessary assistance in achieving the above-average results 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a longperiodoftime, 
and to persist in makinganeffort over a longperiodoftime). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USC IS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to d etermine e if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high lev e 1 of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
in order to be the basis for the future social-economic development of the Republic ofl I In 
addition, the Government of the Republic of I awarded the Petitioner "The National Merit 
Order" for "the best young researcher of II cycles of studies" in 2018. 4 Here, the Petitioner has not 
demonstrated that his scholarship and academic awards reflect a "career of acclaimed work in the 
field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. Rather, the awards indicate 
recognition for financial assistance and academic pursuits and do not show that that his "achievements 
have been recognized in the field of expertise." See section 203(b)(l )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the majorleague level do not 
automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of"extraordinary ability." 
Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). He has not established, for instance, 
that he competed against other accomplished orthopaedic scholars or how his scholarship and 
academic awards compare to other renowned orthopaedic scholars, showing that he "is one of that 
small percentage who [has] risen to the very top of the field of endeavor" rather than receiving 
academic awards to pursue an education. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Further, regarding media coverage, the Petitioner offered four items reflecting published material 
about him from 2014 -201 7. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such press coverage, 
without any since 2017, is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim necessary for 
this highly restrictive classification. See section 203 (b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the Petitioner did 
not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being among that 
small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on him and his activities reflect 
a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The commentary for the 
proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides that the "intent of 
Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected in this 
regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that required" for 
lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).5 Here, the Petitioner's minimal 
media exposure does not meet this very high standard. 
As it relates to the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22. 6 In his capacity 
as a preceptor for first year medical students at he "[p]]rovides end of year evaluation of students 
relative to their achievement of the goals and objectives of thel lcourse."7 Here, the 
Petitioner's recent judging experience involves evaluating the work of first year medical students 
rather than nationally or internationally renowned medical professionals. 
4 The Petitioner previously contended that he also made two presentations during the 2016 Annual Meeting of the I I Association ofNorth America; however, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he received any prizes or 
a wards from these presentations, let alone nationally orintema tionally recognized prizes or a wards for excellence in the 
field. 
5 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 2. 
6 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoyin g sustained national or international acclaim). 
7 See letter from
4 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that these evaluations contribute to a finding that he has a 
career of acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. He did not show, for 
example, how his limited experience in evaluating aspiring medical professionals compares to others 
at the very top of the field. The Petitioner did not establish, for instance, that he garnered wide 
attention from the field based on his evaluation work. Moreover, serving as a judge or evaluator does 
not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary ability and sustained national or 
international acclaim at the very top of his field. Cf., Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (stating that even 
athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the ''extraordinary ability" 
standard). Without evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has 
a consistent history of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner 
has not shown that his judging experience places him among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, authorship and publication do not automaticallyplace one at the top of the field. 8 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner presented evidence showing that he authored 14 journal articles. However, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that his publication record of 14 articles in a five-year timefrarne is 
consistent with having a career of acclaimed work, sustaining national or international acclaim, and 
being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The Petitioner, for instance, did not show the 
significance of his authorships or how his publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the 
very top of the field. 
Moreover, the citation history orotherevidenceofthe influence ofhis written work can be an indicator 
to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and whether such 
influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article authored by 
the Petitioner may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized and that other orthopaedic 
scholars have been influenced by his work. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is 
appropriate pursuant to Kazarian, 5 96 F. 3 d at 1122. Here, the Petitioner provided evidence reflecting 
that his co-authored material has been cited 223 times, with his two highest cited articles receiving 
102 citations. 9 While the citation of his work shows that some in his field have referenced it, the 
Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of interest in the 
field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the 
8 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1,supra,at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative ofbeing one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
were in The lo ppcal, the 
Petitioner provides updated Research Gate and Google Scholar information. However, we will not consider this evidence 
for the first time onappealas it was not presented before the Director. SccMattcrofSoriano, 19 I&NDec. 764, 766(BIA 
1988) (providing that if "the petitioner was put on notice of the required evidence and given a reasonable opportunity to 
provide it for the record before the denial, we will not consider evidence submitted on appeal for any purpose" and that 
"we will adjudicate the appeal based on the record of proceedings" before the Chief); see also Matter of Obaigbena, 19 
I&N Dec. 5 3 3 (BIA 1988). Moreover, the updated information relates to events occurring a ft er the filing of the petition. 
The petitioner must establish that all eligibility requirements for the benefit have been satisfied from the timeoffiling and 
continuing through adjudication. Sec 8 C.F.R. § l 03.2(b )(1). 
5 
Act. In addition, the Petitioner has not shown that the citations to his work represent attention at a 
level consistent with being among that small percentage at the very top of his field.10 See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Likewise, the Petitioner did not show that his presented material garnered him any national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Although he offered evidence showing 
that he presented two papers, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of his presentations 
or how they impacted the field consistent with a very high standard requiring the petitioner to submit 
more extensive documentation than that required for lesser classifications. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Beyond the four criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider additional 
documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates 
eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed below, we find 
that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim 
and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
In support of the significance of his contributions and roles, the Petitioner submitted a few 
recommendation letters that summarized his work as a student, as well as his accomplishments with I I andl I 11 For exampleJ I discussed the Petitioner's study in 
treating! I instability, and I indicated the Petitioner's implementation of 3D 
printing and its integration with I software. Although they praise the Petitioner's work, they 
do not contain sufficient information and explanation to show that he is viewed by the overall field, 
rather than by a solicited few, among the upper echelon or that he has garnered recognition on a 
national or international scale, consistent with being among the small percentage at the very top of the 
field of endeavor. Further, the Petitioner did not establish that he has made impactful or influential 
contributions in the greater field reflecting a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the 
required sustained national or international acclaim. See H.R. Rep.No. at 5 9 and section 20 3 (b )( 1 )(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish how his roles withl I or resulted in 
widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that 
overall field considers him to be at the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) 
and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 ( concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021)(determiningthat 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
10 The record contains citation statistics of selective orthopaedic surgeons from Research Gate. However, the majority of 
the sample has higher citations than the Petitioner, with one individual ga mering a !most 1,400 citations. 
11 On appeal, the Petitioner submits residency interview invitations; however, the documentation relates to events occurring 
after the initial filing and was not presented before the Director. Sec 8 C.F.R. 103.2(b)(l) and Soriano, 19 I&N Dec. at 
766; sec also Obaigbcna, 19 I&NDec. at533. 
6 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
( citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 23 7 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one of the most famous baseball players inKoreanhist01y" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficientto demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b )(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19518381 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a visual artist and designer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act(theAct) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Petitioner satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, he did not show his 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among that small percentage at 
the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)- (x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011 ). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to dete1mine whether the factto be proven is probably 
true." MatterofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met three of the claimed 
evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), artistic display at 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), and leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). However, the 
Director concluded thatthe Petitioner did not show that he garnered sustained national or international 
acclaim and that his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise, demonstrating that 
he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. On appeal, we will review 
the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below.1 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Director concluded that the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate 
whether he has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or 
international acclaim, 2 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.l,EvaluationofEvidence Submitted with CertainForml-140Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2. AFM Update ADJJ-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTMUPolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordina1y ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act). 
2 Sec USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
2 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze an individual's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his 
eligibility. 
At initial filing, the Petitioner provided a statement indicating: 
Currently, I am the co-owner orl l an architecture company based in I jvenezuela, and one of the most important one in the country, with over 240 
architectonic projects in our portfolio -some already built, some in construction, some 
in the feasibility studies stage and some just ideas in drawing paper pending on client 
decisions. 
We have built winning award houses, buildings, malls, several considered real 
landmarks in Venezuela. Also, we have developed architectonic projects in South and 
Central America, the United States and Europe. 
But I am a visual artist, as well. During my career, I have demonstrated that my art and 
my skills as an architect merged. 
As an artist, I have showcased my artwork in individual and collective exhibitions, 
during the last 45 years, in different countries and the 
most renowned galleries in cities 
such as Barcelona, Madrid, Caracas, Bogota, Miami, San Francisco, among others. 
Furthermore, I have won awards and distinctions as a visual artist. 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner has received published material about him, 
displayed in work, and performed in a leading or critical role, the record does not demonstrate that he 
enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to published material, the Petitioner offered about a dozen articles for the period of 2005 
-2018. About half of the articles show published material about him relating to his work, while the 
other articles either mentions his name one time or reflect coverage of his various art exhibits where 
he is credited as the artist. While he claimed to have showcased his artwork for the past 45 years, the 
Petitioner did not present any media coverage of him prior to 2005. Here, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate that such press coverage is consistent with the sustained national or international acclaim 
necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Further, the 
Petitioner did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of success with being 
among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
providing Black's Law Dictionary 's definition of "sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a longperiodoftime, 
and to persist in makinganeffort over a longperiodoftime). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USC IS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to d etermine e if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high lev e 1 of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
§ 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting on him and his 
activities reflect a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203 (b )( 1 )(A)(i) of the Act provides 
that the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is 
reflected in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than 
that required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991).4 Here, the 
Petitioner's minimal media exposure does notmeetthis very high standard. The articles, for instance, 
do not reference the Petitioner as an acclaimed, nationally or internationally recognized artist, 
acknowledging him among the upper echelon in the field. 
Regarding the artistic display of his work, the Petitioner provided evidence of his 20 collective 
exhibitions and his 12 individual exhibitions. The majority of his exhibitions occurred at art galleries 
inl IV enezuela with also a few inl I Florida andl I California from 
2001 -2019. Although the Petitioner established that he exhibited his work at artistic exhibitions and 
showcases, simply displaying one's work, however, does not automatically place one at the very top 
of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the 
major league level do not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual 
of "extraordinary ability." Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate the significance of his collective or individual exhibitions, such as that 
his work brought wide praise from critics, drew notable crowds, raised attendance, or was responsible 
for the success of standings of the events. See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Again, the nominal press 
coverage over the last 20 years, without any evidence of his artwork displayed prior to 2001, does not 
show his sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R 
§ 204.5(h)(3). Moreover, the Petitioner's evidence does not distinguish his work from others in his 
field or show that it reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field. See H.R. Rep. No.101-723 at 59. 
Further, the Petitioner did not establish that his work garnered a level of attention or was regularly 
seen at highly reputable venues consistent with being among that small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
As it pe1iains to his leading or critical role, as mentioned earlier, the Petitioner co-ownsD I I The Petitioner submitted a few articles authored by I describing some 
of its architectural projects. In addition, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that I received awards for various architectural projects. The record also contains evidence of I l's construction projects and furniture brand, I' Although the Petitioner 
claimed to have been working in the field for the past 45 years, he did not document any roles for any 
other organizations or establishments, nor did he demonstrate that he received a level of attention or 
recognition from the field based on his work withl I reflecting a career of acclaimed 
work in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that required. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at59 and56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. Moreover, the Petitioner's evidence does 
not indicate that he received recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with being 
among that small percentage at the very top of the field See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish how his role with resulted in widespread acclaim from 
his field, that he drew significant attention from the greater field, or that the overall field considers 
4 Sec also USCISPolicyMemorandumPM 602-0005.1,supra, at 2. 
4 
him to be at the very top, garnering with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)oftheActand8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Beyond the three criteria determined by the Director that the Petitioner satisfied, we consider 
additional documentation in the record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence 
demonstrates eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. Here, for the reasons discussed 
below, we find that the evidence does not establish that the Petitioner has sustained national or 
international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
As indicated above, the Petitioner presented three awards received by. Although he 
co-owns the business, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has been individually acknowledged 
by garnering nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field, 
showing a career of acclaimed work in the field. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59. Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that his personal achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Furthermore, he has not shown, for 
instance, that he competed against other accomplished visual artists or designers, reflecting that he is 
one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
In addition, regarding his contributions in the field, the Petitioner referenced the same media articles, 
discussed above, as well as five other materials reviewing and critiquing both his individual collections 
andl architectural projects. The record also contains evidence of the Petitioner's 
humanitarian work with organizations. Although the evidence reflects the originality of his work and 
that it has received some attention, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that he has garnered recognition 
on a national or international scale, consistent with being among the small percentage at the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that 
the level of media coverage represents impactful or influential contributions in the overall field 
representing a career of acclaimed work in the field, garnering the required sustained national or 
international acclaim. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59 and section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner did not show that his contributions received substantial attention from the field, indicating 
that he is among the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 
30704. While his charitable work with various organizations is admirable, the Petitioner did not 
demonstrate how his humanitarian work contributes to a career of acclaimed work in the field. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. See Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954 (concluding that even major league level athletes do 
not automatically meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary 
ability,"); Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the 
extraordinary ability designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland 
Sec. (Hamalll), No. 19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 202l)(determiningthat 
EB-1 visas are "reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. 
Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at* 1 (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) 
(citing Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist 
specializing in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c ]ourts have found that even 
5 
highly accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914, 
918 (N.D. Ill. 2002) (findingthat"arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Koreanhist01y" 
did not qualify for visa as a baseball coach). While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no 
one more accomplished to qualify for the classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate 
that he has sustained national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of 
his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
C. 0-1 Nonimmigrant Status 
We note that the record reflects that the Petitioner previously received 0-1 status, a classification 
reserved for nonimmigrants of extraordinary ability. Although USCIS has approved at least one 0-1 
nonimmigrant visa petition filed on behalf of the Petitioner, the prior approval does not preclude 
USCIS from denying an immigrant visa petition which is adjudicated based on a different standard­
statute, regulations, and case law. Many Form 1-140 immigrant petitions are denied after USCIS 
approves prior nonimmigrant petitions. See, e.g., Q Data Consulting, Inc. v. INS, 293 F. Supp. 2d 25 
(D.D.C. 2003); IKEA USv. US Dept. of Justice, 48 F. Supp. 2d 22 (D.D.C. 1999);Fedin Bros. Co., 
Ltd. v. Sava, 724 F. Supp. at 1108, affd, 905 F. 2d at 41. Furthermore, our authority over the USCIS 
service centers, the office adjudicating the nonimmigrant visa petition, is comparable to the 
relationship between a court of appeals and a district court. Even if a service center director has 
approved a nonimmigrant petition on behalf of an individual, we are not bound to follow that finding 
in the adjudication of another immigration petition. See La. Philharmonic Orchestra v. INS, No. 98-
2855, 2000 WL 282785, at *2 (E.D. La. 2000). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25051844 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a music composer and director who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b )(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, 
concluding the Petitioner did not establish that he will continue to work in the United States in his area 
of expertise. The Director further determined he did not demonstrate his entry into the country will 
substantially benefit the United States in a prospective manner. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 53 7, 53 7 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de novo review, we conclude that a remand is warranted in this case. 
Although the Director's denial reflected the Petitioner is at the very top of his field of endeavor, they 
did not support that conclusion with any analysis. Lacking is any indication or explanation of which 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) the Petitioner has satisfied, as is their analysis of 
his sustained national or international acclaim demonstrating he is among the small percentage at the 
very top of his field within a final merits determination. After reviewing the record, we conclude that 
it does not adequately support the Director's decision. Because of this shortcoming, we are remanding 
the matter for them to explain which regulatory criteria the Petitioner's evidence has met, and why he 
warrants a favorable outcome within a final merits determination. 
Additionally, it appears the Director considered the Petitioner's field too narrowly when they stated 
"[t]he record shows that as a singer/composer /musical director [he is] at the very top of the field of 
Georgian folklore and liturgical music." The Director may elect to reevaluate this issue and decide 
how precisely they wish to tailor his bailiwick before evaluating his eligibility under this 
classification's other requirements. In fact, within the initial filing the Petitioner characterized himself 
as seeking classification under this preference category "specifically in music direction and 
composition." 
While the Petitioner has received accolades as a Georgian liturgical music director and composer, 
without considering the Petitioner's field more broadly, the Director has limited consideration of his 
achievements and stature to a small subset of those in his field. Even though his specialty in folklore 
music may differentiate him from other music directors and composers, we generally will not narrow 
his field to others with his specific type of training and experience. 
ORDER: The Director's decision is withdrawn. The matter is remanded for the entry of a new 
decision consistent with the foregoing analysis. 
2 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25483342 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 24, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a fashion model seeking classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Nebraska Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish she received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did she demonstrate that she met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate 
eligibility to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the 
questions in this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 l&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). The 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable material ifhe or she can 
demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's 
occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC IS, 596 F .3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has worked as a model for more than a decade and she attained 0-1 nonimmigrant 
status as a fashion model. Over her career, she has appeared in and on the covers of fashion and other 
types magazines. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she met six of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the judging requirement but that she had not satisfied 
the criteria associated with published material, original contributions, or leading or critical role. The 
Director further concluded she did not show she met the display of her work and commercial success 
criteria through comparable evidence. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that she meets the same criteria she claimed before the Director. 
Because she has satisfied one criterion's requirements, she must meet at least two more within the 
antecedent procedural step of this adjudication. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we 
conclude she has not satisfied at least three regulatory criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner provided several articles as evidence dating back to the mid-2000s. The Director 
determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion. The Director noted 
several issues with the Petitioner's claims and evidence. First, she provided recent published material 
that was not about her and relating to her work and was also not a form of major media. Second, she 
did not demonstrate some material qualified as major media. 
Third, she presented older articles, but the circulation statistics were from around the time of the 
petition filing date. The issue with this final material was the publication's circulation data did not 
2 
represent the publication's standing close to the time the material was published. On appeal, the 
Petitioner contends that the Director ignored much of the evidence and applied a standard to the case 
in excess of the preponderance of the evidence. 
The Petitioner claims the Director ignored some evidence because they did not specifically discuss it 
in the denial decision. Although we agree with the Petitioner that the Director did not directly discuss 
every piece of evidence that she considers salient, she has not explained how any omitted elements 
demonstrated eligibility. In other words, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Director's failure 
to discuss every document in detail changed the outcome of the case and that is a petitioner's burden, 
which she fell short of meeting here. 
When USCIS provides a reasoned consideration to the petition, and has made adequate findings, it 
will not be required to specifically address each claim the Petitioner makes, nor is it necessary for it 
to address every piece of evidence the Petitioner presents. Amin, 24 F.4th at 394; Martinez v. INS, 
970 F.2d 973, 976 (1st Cir. 1992); ajf'd Morales v. INS, 208 F.3d 323, 328 (1st Cir. 2000); see also 
Pakasi v. Holder, 577 F.3d 44, 48 (1st Cir. 2009); Kazemzadeh v. US. Atty. Gen., 577 F.3d 1341, 1351 
(11th Cir. 2009). 
Turning to the evidence under this criterion the Petitioner discusses on appeal, we begin noting that 
she took issue with the Director requiring circulation and website traffic data relative to the time when 
a publication occurred. Stated differently, the Director did not accept circulation data from 2021 when 
an article was published up to 15 years ago. On appeal, the Petitioner not only states that such dated 
evidence was not available, but she also describes such a requirement as arbitrary and capricious and 
an abuse of discretion that imposes an improper standard of proof. 
We agree that supporting evidence for a publication or a website should reflect its readership 
proximate to the publication of the article to demonstrate the stature of the medium at the time of 
publication. When a petitioner relies on 15-year-old articles, they bear the burden to demonstrate that 
evidence adheres to the regulation's standards when the material was published. The failure to do so 
affects the quality of the evidence. The greater the difference between the circulation data and an 
article's published date, the greater the effect on the evidence's relevance and probative value. See 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 376 (discussing the necessity that evidence be relevant, probative, and 
credible). 1 
The Petitioner has not established that each publication qualified as a form of major media when each 
of the relevant articles were published. Nor has she adequately explained how a publication's stature 
attained well after her articles' publication should qualify her under this criterion. We do not follow 
the Petitioner's line ofreasoning any more than we would consider a person grasping a bit of the earth 
in their hands to be clenching a diamond, or someone holding an oyster to possess a fully developed 
pearl. But "[t]here is no pearl within this particular oyster." Healey v. Bendick, 628 F. Supp. 681, 693 
(D.R.I. 1986) ( declining to characterize a government action as arbitrary and capricious or bereft of a 
standard of proof). In a similar situation but a different context, we rely on Matter of Izummi, 22 I&N 
1 The articles that experience diminished evidentiary value the Petitioner discusses on appeal due to this shortcoming 
include: 2007 articles from L 'Officiel, Fakty Magazine, Elle Ukraine; a 2008 article from The Fashion Spot; a 2009 article 
from Elle Ukraine; and a 2016 article from Segodyna Magazine. 
3 
Dec. 169, 175 (Comm'r 1998) to conclude that filing parties cannot demonstrate eligibility at some 
future date after they become eligible under a new set of facts. 2 
The Petitioner also discusses the distinguished nature of publications in a way that implies this term 
is part of this criterion's requirements when it is not. But we will adhere to the regulation's 
requirements and to agency policy to evaluate whether each publication is a professional or a major 
trade publication, or a form of major media. Those requirements are that the published material must 
be about the Petitioner and the contents must relate to the Petitioner's work in the field. Further, the 
published material must also appear in professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
Professional or major trade publications are intended for experts in the field or in the industry. 
To qualify as major media, the Petitioner must establish the circulation statistics are high relative to 
other similar forms of media. The final requirement is that the Petitioner provide each published 
item's title, date, and author and if the published item is in a foreign language, they must provide a 
translation that complies with the requirements found at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The Petitioner must 
submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The article from diply.com is not about the Petitioner. Instead, it mentions the Petitioner within two 
sentences and discusses her among 19 other models. An article that is not about the Petitioner does 
not meet this regulatory criterion. See Victorov v. Barr, No. CV 19-6948-GW-JPRX, 2020 WL 
3213788, at *8 (C.D. Cal. Apr. 9, 2020) (quoting Noroozi v. Napolitano, 905 F. Supp. 2d 535, 545 
(S.D.N.Y. 2012) (finding that articles that are about a team or a competition and only briefly mention 
a foreign national do not satisfy the published material criterion); see also generally, Negro-Plumpe 
v. Okin, No. 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ, 2008 WL 10697512, at *3 (D. Nev. Sept. 9, 2008) (upholding a 
finding that articles about a show or a character within a show are not about the performer). 
And even though the Petitioner claims that all the submitted articles contained the title, date, and 
author, even the appeal brief reflects the publication date is unknown for the work titled I I I I from Vogue Girl Korea. This material does not meet the regulation's requirements. 
Finally, the 2021 article from Fakty Ukraine was translated into English, but it was not accompanied 
by a translator's certification as required by the regulation. Also, the information relating to this 
publication's circulation statistics originated from Wikipedia and there are no assurances about the 
reliability of the content from this open, user-edited internet site. See United States v. Lawson, 677 
F.3d 629, 650-51 (4th Cir. 2012); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008); see also 
Sibanda v. Holder, 778 F.3d 676, 680 (7th Cir. 2015). 
Furthermore, the Petitioner did not identify the circulation figures for other publications in Ukraine by 
which it can be determined through comparison that Fakty Ukraine is a major medium. See generally 
6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting that 
"[e]vidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major media 
publications about the alien should establish that the circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared 
to other circulation statistics .... "). In summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets 
the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
2 While this precedent does not directly apply here, the concept is sufficiently similar. 
4 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major sign[ficance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in their field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 ( citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) (finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner 
must submit evidence satisfying all these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this 
criterion. 
The Petitioner provided media relating to her career, and several letters from those who work in the 
fashion industry. The Director acknowledged articles praising her achievements and the fact that she 
is known for her unique eyes, then decided that her claims and evidence did not meet the requirements 
of this criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner notes the Director did not offer analysis relating to much 
of her evidence and continues to focus her claims on the uniqueness of her facial features having an 
impact within the modeling industry. 
While the Petitioner provided numerous testimonial letters from well-known members in the fashion 
world, not all of them addressed how she has made original contributions to the industry. Although a 
select few did discuss her contributions, they lack specific information to demonstrate her 
contributions rose to a level of major significance. Several letters characterize the Petitioner as a 
pioneer for models with a unique appearance and imply that she changed the standards for models 
through her unusual look, while others state that she has reinforced the industry's embrace of bold and 
differing looks. For instanceJ !attributes the Petitioner's appearance in the industry as 
the turning point when designers, creative directors, and fashion industry executives began to gravitate 
toward her look, which paved the way for other models with a similar appearance. 
Although some supporting materials in the record reference her unique eyes and reinforce that she is 
known for this feature in the industry, what is lacking is probative evidence demonstrating her field 
was actually impacted by her appearance. She did not establish that prior to her arrival, models with 
large eyes or other bold facial features were not present or were not employed in the fashion industry. 
Nor did she illustrate that because of her emergence and her unique look, that this served as a turning 
point in which those with similar features were sought out in a widespread manner. Essentially, the 
Petitioner did not show that her claimed contribution resulted in a significant impact in her field. 
Within other letters, the Petitioner asserts the authors detailed the impact she has had on the modeling 
industry, but a review of those materials does not bear out those claims. For example, the letter from I !details the role the Petitioner played within her organization and although she discusses 
how her unique appearance resulted in monetary gain forl !agency, she does not explain 
how that impacted the field as a whole in a significant manner. 
5 
Although the Petitioner has shown that she is known for her unique appearance within the industry, 
she has not explained or demonstrated that this factor has significantly impacted the field. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii). 
Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed she satisfied this criterion in one of two methods. She first 
claimed the regulatory standards readily apply to her occupation, and if that method did not result in 
a favorable determination, her evidence qualified as comparable evidence under the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). The Petitioner provided multiple administrative decisions in support of her 
claim that the standards under this criterion readily applied to her occupation. The Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion finding that when she modelled the 
clothing of designers, that did not constitute the display of her work. 
While two things can both be true at one time, the Petitioner's contradictory positions cannot. Because 
the Petitioner presents a dichotomy and both statements cannot be true (i.e., the standards both readily 
apply to her occupation and that they do not), and because she presented affirmative materials 
supporting the position that this regulation is applicable to her vocation, we do not accept her 
alternative claims that this criterion's requirements are not readily applicable to her profession. 
Various forms of artistic display may satisfy this criterion's requirements and we evaluate the nature 
of the display. The regulation's plain language requires the exhibition or showcase to be artistic in 
nature. The arts may include visual art, the performing arts, music, graphic art, and other examples of 
the fine arts. And just as the event must be artistic, the evidence must also demonstrate the artistic 
nature of a petitioner's work displayed at the event. 
Here, the regulatory standards are readily applicable to the Petitioner's occupation. The Petitioner's 
evidence consists of photographs of her appearing in fashion and other types of magazines within tear 
sheets, as well as on the cover of foreign editions of fashion and other categories of magazines. Within 
the appeal, the Petitioner offers a 2016 unpublished administrative decision from this office indicating 
the foreign national in that case met this criterion's requirements through appearing "prominently in a 
number of advertising campaigns and fashion magazine editorials. Some of the campaigns and 
editorials credited the Petitioner, specifically listing his name, as their featured model." However, 
while 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c) provides that this office's precedent decisions are binding on all USCIS 
employees in the administration of the Act, unpublished decisions are not similarly binding. We may 
consider the reasoning within the unpublished decision; however, the analysis does not have to be 
followed as a matter of law. 
The Petitioner claims the present case is corollary to the unpublished decision, but we do not agree 
that the facts in her case are sufficiently similar. She does not argue, nor does she identify the evidence 
demonstrating she prominently appeared in a number of advertising campaigns and editorials, some 
of which listed her as the campaign's featured model. Even if that were the case, we are not bound by 
the findings in a previous decision. There is a myriad of factors that might have led to the positive 
decision in that 2016 decision, and we cannot know all of them. Nor do we know that all the factors 
6 
in the present case sufficiently correlate. The Petitioner must demonstrate her eligibility through her 
own evidence and arguments. 
Turning to the Petitioner's claims and supporting material, she discusses various methods in which 
models in general might satisfy this criterion's requirements. Her claims under this criterion consist 
of photographs of her appearing in magazines and on their cover and her appearance on fashion show 
runway events. The record does not establish that her appearance in magazines represents a display 
of her work at artistic exhibitions or showcases. Although the images the Petitioner offers of those 
campaigns show that her work was displayed in print and in digital media, this criterion specifically 
requires display of the Petitioner's work at "artistic exhibitions or showcases." Also see generally 6 
USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices) (focusing on the artistic nature of the venue). The 
Petitioner's arguments lack adequate analysis to demonstrate that these forms of media constitute the 
type of venue the regulation requires that is an artistic exhibition or an artistic showcase. 
As it relates to appearing on fashion show runways, the evidence shows she appeared on the runways, 
but the record does not establish that it was her work that was primarily on display as opposed to the 
fashion items she was wearing. For instance, the record does not reflect that the focus was on the 
models themselves at the claimed fashion shows. 
In other contexts, fashion stylists or "image architects" might make such a showing at a competition 
in which clothing, jewelry, hairstyles, makeup, and fingernails created by the stylist are displayed at a 
runway show attended by judges and spectators. In that instance, the work of stylists was on display 
at an artistic exhibition or showcase. While the Petitioner's claims and evidence might factor more 
appropriately within a final merits determination, it falls short of satisfying the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or 
record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). 
When this criterion is readily applicable to an occupation, it requires a petitioner to establish eligibility 
through evidence showing a volume of sales or box office receipts as a measure of a foreign national' s 
commercial success in the performing arts. However, if a petitioner demonstrates these requirements 
are not readily applicable to their occupation, they may submit evidence they consider to be 
comparable that shows commercial success through some monetarily measurable factors or through a 
form of monetization (i.e., through commerce). 
In the end it is not a petitioner who decides what materials may qualify as comparable evidence; 
instead "USCIS determines if the evidence submitted is comparable to the evidence required in 8 CFR 
204.5(h)(3)." See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, F.2 (Appendices); see also Matter of 
Caron International, 19 I&N Dec. 791, 795 (Comm 'r 1988) ( concluding USCIS "is responsible for 
making the final determination regarding a beneficiary's eligibility for the benefit sought"). 
The Petitioner claimed she met this criterion through comparable evidence before the Director. The 
Director declined to grant this criterion and determined that the regulation did not permit such a 
showing because it "does not allow any alternative measure of one's commercial success other than 
7 
'by box office receipts or records, cassette, compact disc, or video sales."' We do not agree with the 
Director's reasoning here. 
The Petitioner argues and has shown that this criterion's standards are not readily applicable to her 
occupation. To meet her burden of proof under this requirement, the Petitioner must provide evidence 
and an explanation of why that material is comparable to this criterion's original standards. On appeal 
the Petitioner argues a model's commercial success is demonstrated by their ranking with major 
industry journals and organizations, their ability to consistently land important jobs for leading 
commercial clients, and their appearance on the cover of multiple publications. The Petitioner further 
posits that success in the industry via these means demonstrates her success commercially. 
However, absent from the arguments and the evidence is the commercial or monetary aspect relating 
to compensation for these events. While the regulation contains a criterion relating to a high salary or 
significantly high remuneration at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), comparable evidence under this criterion 
could be oflesser qualitative means such that it might not satisfy the salary or remuneration regulation, 
but it could demonstrate a sufficient level of commercial success to comparably show eligibility under 
this requirement. 
The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that demonstrates her claimed achievements are comparable 
to the standards under this criterion. Absent from the arguments and the evidence is the monetary or 
other comparable commercially successful aspect relating to her compensation for the methods she 
claims demonstrate a model's commercial success (i.e., ranking in major industry journals and 
organizations, ability to land important jobs for leading commercial clients, and appearance on the 
cover of multiple publications). Possible examples might include: (1) a product's revenues have 
dramatically increased from the time a model has been featured in advertising that product; (2) their 
presence at fashion shows that don't normally sell out resulted in uncommon demand for the events 
where they are marketed as a featured model; or (3) a magazine's sales significantly increased for the 
particular issue, or issues, as a direct result of a particular model appearing on its cover. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims she meets five criteria in addition to judging, because 
her arguments fail on the criteria we discussed above, that means she cannot numerically meet the 
required number of criteria and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on her other claimed 
elements. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those claims under the leading or critical role 
criterion. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional 
grounds when another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 
28 I&N Dec. 568, 576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
ITT. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the material in the aggregate, concluding that while we acknowledge the 
8 
Petitioner has built a reputation, the record does not support a finding that she has established the 
acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. l 0 1-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6109901 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an songwriter and singer of traditional Irish music, seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that, while the Petitioner had 
satisfied three of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, she had not demonstrated sustained national or 
international acclaim and that her achievements have been recognized through extensive 
documentation. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and asserts that the Director erred in applying a final merits 
analysis when concluding that she had not established her eligibility for the classification sought, and 
that, this error notwithstanding , . 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a singer and songwriter of traditional Irish music. 
In his decision, the Director determined that while the Petitioner met three of the ten evidentiary 
requirements. After considering the totality of the evidence in a final merits determination, the 
Director found that the record did not show sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrate 
that the Petitioner was at the very top of her field of endeavor. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director erred in conducting a two-stage analysis following 
a determination that she meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria as, "[t]he regulations do not call for 
the two step analysis used by [him]." She farther argues that he "failed to provide specific and 
substantiated reasons why it believes [she] has not risen to the top of her field of traditional Irish 
music." She cites to Buletini v. INS, 860 F. Supp. 1222, 1234 (E.D. Mich. 1994) in which the court 
stated: 
Proof that an alien meets three of the criteria of the regulation is intended to constitute 
evidence that the alien has extraordinary ability ... It is an abuse of discretion for the 
agency to deviate from the criteria of its own regulation. Once it is established that the 
alien's evidence is sufficient to meet three of the criteria listed in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
the alien must be deemed to have extraordinary ability unless the INS sets forth specific 
2 
and substantiated reasons for its finding that the alien, despite having satisfied the 
criteria, does not meet the extraordinary ability standard. 
In contrast to the broad precedential authority of the case law of a United States circuit court (such as 
with Kazarian), we are not bound to follow the published decision of a United states district court in 
cases arising within the same district. See Matter ofK-S-, 20 I&N Dec. 715 (BIA 1993). The reasoning 
underlying a district judge's decision will be given due consideration when it is properly before us; 
however the analysis does not have to be followed as a matter of law. Id. At 719. 
Regardless, the above quote from Buletini indicates that the court considered the possibility that a 
petitioner can submit evidence satisfying three criteria and still not meet the extraordinary ability 
standard if USCIS provides specific and substantiated reasoning for its conclusion. See Buletini, 860 
F. Supp. at 1234. The court in Buletini did not reject at any time the concept of examining the quality 
of the evidence presented. Specifically, the court in Buletini acknowledged, "the examiner must 
evaluate the quality, including the credibility, of the evidence presented to determine if it, in fact, 
satisfies the criteria." Id. We therefore determine that the Director did not err in his analysis with 
respect to conducting a two-stage analysis. However, upon de nova review of the record, 1 we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established that she meets three of the ten evidentiary criteria, and will 
withdraw the Director's determination in that manner as discussed below. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Petitioner met three of the evidentiary 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to published material, judging, and leading or critical 
role. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find the Petitioner does not demonstrate 
that she meets three of the ten criteria, as required. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
In order to establish eligibility for this criterion, the Petitioner submits several media articles as well 
as printouts of the Facebook page fo L_ _____________ l-'-' ....... "-"'-'..,,.,_....L.l.1.1-"-"-'---'- ................... ....., 
articles are not about the Petitioner, as required. Specifically,' I I' printed in the New Ross Standard, is primarily about._t_h_e_l-au_n_c_h_o_f-th_e_m_u_s_i_c_al~r- _-_-_-~....,.._a_t__.a 
1 We exercise de novo review of all issues of fact, law, policy, and discretion. See Matter of Dhanasar, 26 T&N Dec. 884 
(AAO 2016). This means that we look at the record anew and are not required to defer to findings made in the initial 
decision. Furthermore, our decision may address new issues that were not raised or resolved in the prior decision. The 
former Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) recognized the AA O's de novo review authority as far back as 1984. 
See Powers and Duties of Service Officers, 49 Fed. Reg. 7355 (Feb. 29, 1984). Courts have also long recognized the 
AAO's de novo review authority. See, e.g.. Soltane v. USDOJ, 381 F.3d 143, 145-46 (3rd Cir. 2004); Sadeghzadeh v. 
USCIS, 322 F.Supp.3d 12. 19 (DDC 2018). In addition, the AAO's de novo review authority is acknowledged in our 
precedent decisions. See, e.g., Matter of Simeio Solutions, LLC, 26 l&N Dec. 542, 542 n. l (AAO 2015). 
3 
local theater. While this article includes a photograph of the Petitioner with other performers at the 
launch of this musical, she is not identified within the text of the article. I I' published online at www.wmfe.org, focuses on I I the fiddler forl [ and his upcoming participation in a 'traditional musician of the 
year' competition. The Petitioner is briefly mentioned as a member ofl l however this article 
cannot be considered to be about her. 
The record also includes screenshots from I ts Facebook page, such as photos of the Petitioner 
performing with, and Facebook reviews of the band. Here, the Petitioner does not demonstrate how 
these photos and reviews constitute published material to satisfy this criterion. However, even were 
we to accept these screenshots as published material, the Petitioner has not established that reviews 
and photos aboutl I are about her. In order to establish eligibility for this criterion, the published 
material should be about the Petitioner relating to her work in the field. Articles that are not about a 
petitioner do not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR­
RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about 
the actor). Furthermore, the record lacks evidence establishing that the New Ross Standard, 
www.wmfe.org, or Facebook, are professional or major trade publications or other major media, as 
required.2 
The remainder of the articles in the record are about the Petitioner and relate to her work. 3 For 
exam le, and j I 
----------------------r---------------' ," and 'I I 
--~--~-----~~--~~-~----'' are about the Petitioner and her father singing 
~-~ in a church. 4 The record reflects that these articles were published online at Independent.ie, 
However, the record does not demonstrate that Independent.ie is a professional or major trade 
publication or other major medium, as required. 5 The Petitioner provides a printout from Similar Web 
listing this website's global rank, number of total visits, average visit duration, number of pages per 
visit, graphs of total visits over the past six months, and the percentage of traffic, by country. However, 
she does submit evidence, such as on-line circulation statistics or other relevant data, to show that 
independent.ie's circulation is high relative to others, and thus is a major medium. 6 She therefore does 
not demonstrate that such statistics reflect status as a major medium. 
The remainder of the articles about the Petitioner and related to her work were published in Wexford 
Echo, Wexford People, and online at mchalespub.com. However, she does not present evidence 
establishing that these newspapers or website are professional or major trade publications or are major 
media. For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that she meets this criterion and 
we withdraw the Director's finding in this matter. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that evidence of published material about the 
alien in major media should establish that its circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics. 
3 While we discuss a sampling of the articles here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 We note that several of the articles submitted do not include an author, as required by the regulation, and therefore cannot 
be considered. This includes the articles published on www.sunnyskyz.com, mummypages.ie, crosswalk.com, 
godvine.com, and godtube.com. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
6 Id. 
4 
As discussed above, we find that the Petitioner does not meet the criterion related to published 
material. Although the Petitioner also claims that she meets the criteria related to judging and to 
leading or critical role, we need not reach these issues. We reserve them as the Petitioner cannot meet 
the initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally 
required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L­
A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an 
applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 5057049 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an international strategic consulting firm, seeks classification of the Beneficiary , a senior 
director and expert in the field of I I trade and diplomatic relations, as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record established 
that the Beneficiary had satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet 
at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner 
to submit comparable material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner currently employs the Beneficiary as an advisor in the field of trade and diplomatic 
relations.1 The Beneficiary served as thel I from 2007 through 2013, 
and holds a master of public policy froml !University and a bachelor of science in foreign 
service froml !University. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, it must demonstrate that he satisfies at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director found that the Beneficiary met two 
of the evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), relating to leading or critical role and salary. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary also meets the evidentiary criteria relating to 
published material and scholarly articles and newly claims that he meets the criterion for original 
contributions. It also requests that we consider additional documentation as comparable evidence for 
the artistic display criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii).2 After reviewing all of the evidence in the 
record, we find that the record does not support a finding that the Beneficiary meets at least three of 
the evidentiary criteria, as required. 
1 The Petitioner indicates that the Beneficiary currently holds Hl-B status. 
2 The Director determined that the Petitioner's evidence did not meet the published material criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii) because the submitted material was not about him. The Petitioner contests that determination on appeal, 
but also asserts on appeal that media coverage should be evaluated as comparable evidence under the regulation at 8 C.F .R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). 
2 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director previously determined that the Petitioner had not submitted sufficient evidence to 
establish that the Beneficiary met this criterion. In the appellate brief, the Petitioner lists four articles 
that it asserts establish the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion. 
Two of these are about the Beneficiar and relate to his work. The first ' 
~----~I' published on the Business Insider website (businessinsider.corn), is an interview with 
the Beneficiary from his perspective as a former di lornat. The second, ublished on the Yahoo 
Finance website (finance.yahoo.corn), .__----,------.-------------------,-J 
is about meetings the Beneficiary held with .__ __ _.conglomerates, and their views on the trade 
agreement. The Petitioner also provides the online circulation statistics for finance.yahoo.corn. 
However, it does not include comparable data for other websites, or other relevant evidence, that might 
show that the on-line circulation for these websites is high in relation, or that they otherwise rise to 
the level of major media, as required. 
As it relates to businessinsider.corn, the Petitioner submits a printout from insider-inc.corn containing 
the total number of unique visitors, monthly video views, "fans and followers," and average monthly 
interactions for that website. This document does not provide on-line circulation statistics for 
businessinsider.corn, the website on which the published material appeared. The Petitioner does not 
otherwise show how on-line circulation statistics for insider-inc.corn demonstrate 
businessinsider.corn's status as a major medium. 
The remaining articles quote the Beneficiary, but are not about him. The first article, c====J, 
I , , t was published in print and online by L______J I I and in several newspapers owned by that company. 3 The article is predominantly about the 
diplomatic community's response to a leaked transcript of a phone conversation between the United 
States President and thel !President. The second, I I 
I l" was published online at qz.corn. The article's focus is the diplomatic 
relations between thel L Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor.) As an additional 
matter, we note that while the Petitioner provides circulation statistics for both the I • I 
I land qz.corn, it does not provide comparable data to show that these values are high relative 
to that of other newspaper companies or websites, respectively, or otherwise show that this company 
or website rise to the level of major media. 4 
3 The record also reflects that this article was reprinted online in the Miami Herald, the Idaho Statesman, The Sydnev 
Morning Herald, the Greenfield Recorder, the Brisbane Times, and the Sacramento Bee, I ] I I. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
3 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner therefore has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility 
for this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
For the first time on appeal the Petitioner asserts the Beneficiary's eligibility for this criterion. It 
~cally references the Beneficiary's "novel approach" in "meeting with leaders from each of 
l___Js provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions" when 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has the beneficiary made contributions that were original but that they have been of major significance 
in the field. For example, a petitioner may show that the beneficiary's contributions have been widely 
implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the field, or have otherwise risen to a 
level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner submits expert testimonials from senior elected officials, former diplomats, and 
business consultants discussing the Beneficiary's work in the field. 
,__ ______ __,from 2006 to 2012, notes that the Beneficiary built "solid ties with interlocutors 
at the highest levels of th~I I government," and was "invaluable in promoting both I I 
companies with interests in! I investment i~ I' However, his testimony does 
not provide specific examples showing how the Beneficiary built these relationships with I I 
government officials, or otherwise indicate how this approach is an original contribution in the 
Beneficiary's field. The correspondence further lacks specific examples of how this approach has 
widely impacted or been widely implemented in the field. Letters that lack specifics do not add value, 
and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 
.__ _________ ___, , who served a from 2006 to 2012, 
references the Beneficiary's "unique ~ach" in visiting "every single.__ _____ __, where he 
secured meetings with Governors andl___) Secretaries." She provides examples of the Beneficiary's 
actions, and asserts that "[a]s a result of [the Beneficiary's] efforts, important provinces ... sent high-
level delegations td I received I I business delegations, and entered into commercial 
agreements withl I bxp1rters." She further contends that this novel strategy "led to an increase in..c==J exports to from US 3.2 billion in 2007 to US 9.1 billion in 2012." I I L__J managing director and portfolio manager at.,.... __ .,--_ ___,, describes the Beneficiary as 
being "instrumental in orchestrating a delegation to of top-level representatives of the I I" .........,......,.....,...-----,----,-! explains that this delegation was 
"crucial" both because it included the "heads of provincial branches" and because "it was the first time 
such high-level I I executives had visited! I' He asserts that these efforts "led to 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (noting that evidence of published material about the 
alien in major media should establish that its circulation ( on-line or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics. 
4 While we discuss a sampling of the articles here, we have reviewed the record in its entirety. 
4 
17s opening operations inl I and to increased I I direct investment in I I from 
r===]provincial entities." Opinion letters from experts in the field may establish eligibility under 
this criterion, if they contain a probative analysis articulating the significance of an individual's 
contributions and their impact on the field; however, letters that lack specifics do not add value and 
are not considered probative evidence to establish eligibility. 5 Here, while descriptive of the 
Beneficiary's achievements, the testimonial letters do not explain how his work on behalf of1 I 
has impacted the broader field of trade and diplomatic relations. Without analysis explaining how the 
Beneficiary's work has been of major significance to the field, the letters do not establish eligibility 
for this criterion. 
The record also includes a translated statement from the '-------~~---------' titled 
'--------------~---~----'' media coverage of trade deals, photographs 
of the Beneficiar 's meetin s with.__ __ _.provincial leaders, and a table entitled 'I I 
,,__ _________ __,..---,,, extracted from the article 'I I 
' authored byl 16 While these documents 
~d_e_m_o_n_s-tr_a_t_e_a_c_h-ie_v_e_m_e_n_t_s~in trade during the Beneficiary's time asl lthey do not identify 
his role in accomplishing them, or otherwise demonstrate that his role has widely impacted or 
influenced the broader field of trade and diplomatic relations. For example, while the documrt fro1 
th9 I announcing a bilateral agreement to export pork from ~--~I notes that the Beneficiary participated in thel I, the record lacks evidence 
showing the role he played in securing this agreement, or demonstrating that others in his field have 
used his approach. The news article and a er extract in the record also discuss trade deals occlrring I 
durin the Beneficiar ' but do not reference him specifically. The article' 
' discusses how the bank has "conducted extensive and fruitful L...-----------------t-----, exchanges and cooperation with the.__ __ ~ government," but does not differentiate the Beneficiary's 
role in these meetin s from that of other officials. The article '-----------------' only notes that....,_ __ ~__. s history in I I "began in 2010" when it sigled a joint venture 
agreement with ~--~ceramic manufacturer, leading to an increase in sales in The extract 
from the paper indicates the increase in exports during the time that the Beneficiary wasl I 
but does not demonstrate the relationship between his actions and the resulting increase in trade, or 
otherwise establish that the Beneficiary's approach has been widely implemented in or widely 
impacted his field. Finally, while the photographs of the Beneficiary demonstrate that he met with 
various I I officials, they do not indicate the purpose or significance of his visits. The record 
lacks media, meeting agendas, or other evidence that might demonstrate the Beneficiary's novel trade 
approach. Accordingly, these materials are insufficient to establish that his actions a~ I in 
relation to these outcomes, or that his approach has impact and analysis has subsequently been 
implemented widely in the field of diplomatic and trade relations, or is otherwise of major significance 
in this field. 
In addition to the expert testimony, the record reflects that the Beneficiar .---------~-----~-----. his work. For example, he published a chap,....te_r_e_n_t_it_le_d~----------------
1 I in the book~-----------------~ I published by the Brookings Institute." He also delivered guest lectures lectured at 
5 
the University of and for thel I University's ~I-----~ 
Program. Publications and presentations, however, are not sufficient under 8 .....,.,..=--...,.........,.....,......,-----...,....,........,...,..... C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) absent evidence that they were of "major significance." See Kazarian v. 
USCIS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), aff'd in part, 596 F.3d 1115. There is no presumption 
that every published article or conference presentation is a contribution of major significance in the 
field; rather, a petitioner must document the actual impact of the beneficiary's article or presentation. 7 
The record does not show that the Petitioner's published and presented work has affected his field in a 
substantial way or that it otherwise equates to original contributions of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner provides letters from at I I and from I I I Professor of Public Manageme._nt_a_t_,..1----,.lu-n-iv_e_r_si-ty__,, 
regarding the Beneficiary's presentations at these institutions. I I notes that atl I "he 
presented a thought-provoking and original thesis comparing the political models of thel I I I and I b" and that this lecture "quickly 
became a reference point for I I and scholars as it contributed to new parameters for 
comparative study of one-party political systems." I I discusses the Beneficiary's role as 
guest lecturer onl lwith thd I Program, stating, "[h]is 
lectures were extremely engaging and substantive .... " However.I ts letter does not contain 
specific examples of how the Beneficiary's thesis became a reference point or how it widely impacted 
the field such that it rises to the level of a contribution of major significance in the field. I ts 
letter similarly lacks detailed examples of the wide impact of the Beneficiary's lectures on the field. 
As we note above, letters that lack specifics do not add value, and are not considered to be probative 
evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 8 
The record further reflects that the Beneficiary has been quoted in articles appearing in The New York 
Times, The Guardian and online at newsweek.com, among other sources. However, the Petitioner 
does not s~w being quoted in these sources demonstrates that the Beneficiary's I I 
methods inL__J have been widely implemented throughout the field, have remarkably impacted the 
field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major significance in the field. 
For the aforementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
As mentioned above, the record includes evidence establishin that the Beneficiar has authored a 
chapter entitled, ' ' in the 
book~-------------------------~ published by the 
Brookings Institute. It also reflects that the Beneficiary wrote a policy report entitled I I 
7 Generally, citations can confirm that the field has taken interest in a scholar's work. The Petitioner submitted Google 
rankings indicating that others have cited to these papers; however these citations do not reflect that his work was singled 
out as pa1iicularly impoliant. The Petitioner has not demonstrated that the citations to his work, considered both 
individually and collectively, are commensurate with contributions "of major significance in the field." 
8 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra at 8, 9. 
6 
.__ __________________ ___.?" published by the Atlantic Council's Adrienne 
Arsht Latin America Center. The record includes sufficient evidence to demonstrate that this work 
constitutes a scholarly article in a professional publication.9 Accordingly, the Petitioner has 
established that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, and we will withdraw the Director's finding in 
this matter. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
We find that the Beneficiary meets this criterion based upon his I I ._ ______ ____. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner established that the Beneficiary has commanded a high 
salary in relation to others in the field, and thus met this criterion. Upon review, we find evidence in 
the record does not sufficiently establish this. First, we note that the record does not establish the 
salary commanded by the Beneficiary. With its initial filing, the Petitioner indicates that it will employ 
the Beneficiary "at a minimum annual base salary of $150,000 plus commissions and bonuses," 10 and 
provides the Beneficiary's 2017 Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, showing that he earned 
$417,577.20 in that year. On appeal, the brief asserts that the Beneficiary "commands a high salary 
relative to others in his field ($435,000)." The Petitioner must resolve this inconsistency in the record 
with independent, objective evidence pointing to where the truth lies. Matter of Ho, 19 I&N Dec. 582, 
591-92 (BIA 1988). Here the record does not provide sufficient documentation to establish the 
Beneficiary's base salary and other remuneration. 
Even were we to find that the record established the Beneficiary's salary, the Petitioner does not submit 
position-appropriate evidence sufficient to establish that he has commanded a high salary relative to 
other~----------~experts. Specifically, the record contains a printout from the 
Department of Labor's Office of Foreign Labor Certification Online Wage Library providing wage 
ranges for economists. However, the Petitioner does not demonstrate how the Beneficiary's role as 
an advisor in the field ofl I is equivalent to the role of an economist such 
that this printout shows the salaries of others in the field. 11 
For the abovementioned reasons, the Petitioner has not provided evidence sufficient to demonstrate 
that the Beneficiary meets this criterion, and we will withdraw the Director's finding to the contrary 
in this matter. 
9 A scholarly article should be written for "learned" persons in the field. "Learned" is defined as having or demonstrating 
profound knowledge or scholarship. Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field. See 
USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-000J 1 rnnra at 9 
10 The record also includes a letter from I managing partner for the Petitioner, confirming that the 
Petitioner intends to employ the Beneficiary at a minimum annual base salary of $150,000 per year plus commissions and 
bonuses. 
11 This printout indicates that economists command a level 4 wage of $150,218 annually. 
7 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner argues that "magazine articles and op-eds published in major media, quotes 
by him in major media articles, and public speeches before prestigious audiences" should be 
considered as comparable evidence of the eligibility criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii), a criterion 
that requires "[ e ]vidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or 
showcases."12 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed 
criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted 
evidence that would satisfy at least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as 
why the evidence he has included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 13 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the listed criteria do not readily apply to his occupation. He 
has not asserted or demonstrated that he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the ten 
criteria. As discussed, the Petitioner has claimed to meet more than three criteria. Moreover, the 
Petitioner has not shown that senior directors with expertise in diplomatic and trade relations cannot 
present evidence relating to the other regulatory criteria such as receiving awards for excellence and 
membership. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) and (ii). As such, the Petitioner has not established that 
he is eligible to meet the initial evidence requirements through the submission of comparable 
evidence. 14 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
12 We note that our decision addressed the Beneficiary's published articles and opinion pieces, speaking engagements. and 
quotes under the original contributions criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Furthermore, as discussed above, we found 
that the Beneficiar 's ublished works entitled 
I I and~--------------------~ folfilled the authorship of scholarly 
articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
13 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 12. 
14 On appeal, the Petitioner cites an AAO non-precedent decision for the proposition that to prove eligibility under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(4). one must only demonstrate that at least one criterion is not applicable, and that the submitted evidence is 
comparable to that criterion. This decision was not published as a precedent and therefore does not bind USCIS officers 
in future adjudications. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(c). Instead, we are bound by the published policy memorandum referenced 
above. 
8 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
9 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13011510 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an academic medical center, seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements , it did not establish, as 
required, that the Beneficiary has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in 
the small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of a beneficiary's achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then it must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner's evidence meets these initial requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national 
or international acclaim and demonstrates that the beneficiary is among the small percentage at the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two­
part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of 
criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. 
Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Beneficiary trained in India and the United Kingdom and undertook residencies a~ I 
Hospital before a three-year fello1ship atl I , I Michigan. Since 2017, the Beneficiary 
has worked for the Petitioner as a critical care specialist.1 He is the chair and medical director 
of the Petitioner·d I Critical Response and Resuscitation Committee, and director o~ 
Simulations in the Petitiojler'g I Intensive Care Unit. He is also an assistant professor ofl___J 
atl University, which has a medical school affiliated with the Petitioner. 
Because we agree with the Director that the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will 
evaluate whether it has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained 
national or international acclaim and that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field 
of endeavor, and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and 
weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they 
have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20.2 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established the Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The Petitioner asserts: 
[The Beneficiary] is a nationally renowned I I Critical Care Specialist~!--~ 
lntensivist and researcher who specializes in the field of pediatric critical care 
1 The Petitioner previously filed an immigrant petition on the Beneficiary's behalf in October 2013, seeking to classify the 
Beneficiary as a member of the professions holding an advanced degree under section 203(b)(2)(A) of the Act. That petition 
was approved in November 2013. 
2 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update AD11-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 
medicine, dealing with critically ill~-----------====-~ He 
has achieved sustained national acclaim as a recognized authority~ cardio 
therapy issues, congenital heart disease, medical simulations forl__J Intensive 
Care Units, and the use of vasoactive-ventilation-renal scores to achieve reliable 
predictions of post-operative outcomes tori I undergoing cardiac surgery. 
In denying the petition, the Di rector stated that the Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary has earned 
sustained national or international acclaim for his work at the petitioning institution. The Director also 
acknowledged the Beneficiary's published articles, but concluded that the Petitioner had not submitted 
comparative evidence to show that others have cited the Beneficiary's articles at a rate "commensurate 
with sustained national or international acclaim." For example, a Google Scholar printout in the record 
shows 13 citations of the Beneficiary's most-cited article as of August 2019; on appeal, the Petitioner 
has not submitted evidence demonstrating that such a citation rate is noteworthy within the field. 
The Petitioner notes the impact factors of the journals that published the Beneficiary's articles, but 
does not show that those articles have had an impact or otherwise stood out in a manner that would 
show that the Beneficiary is an acclaimed researcher at the top of his field. The reputation of a given 
journal does not establish or imply acclaim for individual researchers whose work appears in that 
journal. The Beneficiary's authorship of articles indicates that he is an active contributor in his 
specialty, but does not rise to the higher level of establishing sustained national or international acclaim 
or place him among the small percentage at the very top of his field. Much of the record points to the 
same conclusion. For instance, the Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary obtained "extensive 
experience reviewing and julging thl work of others in his field ... due to his national acclaim and 
experience as one of the top clinical care specialists in the nation," but the record does not 
indicate that his judging activity goes beyond routine peer review of manuscripts and evaluation of 
subordinates and job candidates. 
The Petitioner states that the Beneficiary's "pioneering original research ... has led to groundbreaking 
findings" that affect the care of I !patients with serious and life-threatening conditions. The 
record lacks documentary evidence to establish that the Beneficiary's contributions have earned him 
sustained national or international acclaim. Instead, the Petitioner relies heavily on letters from 
individuals with demonstrable connections to the Beneficiary, and whose first-hand knowledge of the 
Beneficiary's work does not imply wider recognition. 
Individuals who have employed, trained, or collaborated with the Beneficiary assert that he has made 
valuable contributions to his field, but the record does not show that these contributions have resulted 
in field-wide recognition tantamount to national or international acclaim. For example, the vasoactive­
ventilation-renal (VVR) score is a clinical tool used to predict length of hospital stay and treatment 
outcome for I I patients who undergo cardiac surgery. The Petitioner states that the 
Beneficiary's "research demonstrated that the WR score is a reliable measure of critical illness 
severity in I I patients and was therefore recognized as one of the Top 10 Contributions to 
Cardiology in 2019 by AvidScience." 
However, the Petitioner's statement conflicts with evidence submitted. The record includes a partial 
printout of the ebook Top 10 Contributions on Cardiology. The printout does not indicate that the 
contributions were "recognized ... by AvidScience." Rather, the ebook is a compilation of excerpts 
3 
of scholarly articles, and Avid Science is the ebook's open source publisher. The record sheds no light 
on who compiled the book, or the criteria they used when selecting contributions. The use of the 
phrase "Top 10" does not establish a broad consensus, and the record lacks evidence of the ebook's 
readership or reputation within the field. The Petitioner refers to the book as a "textbook," but the 
record does not document the book's use in this manner. 
Furthermore, Chapter 9 of that book, "WR Score Predicts Intensive Care Unit Length of Stay in 
Patients Undergoing Re-entry Sternotomy," is not an article by the Beneficiary. Instead, the 
Beneficiary was a co-author of one of the 26 source articles cited in the bibliography. The cited article 
described the outcome of a study that "sought to validate" the WR score. The record shows that the 
Beneficiary refined the WR score, but did not originate it; he is not named as a co-author of the 
earliest articles about it. Thus, while his work on it is undisputed, the record does not demonstrate 
that accolades given to the WR score reflect acclaim and recognition of the Beneficiary's work. 
A professor atl I University School of Medicine, who was the corresponding author of the 
paper that introduced the VVR score, states that the Beneficiary initially participated in a project 
involving the petitioning institution "along with six other institutions," with "eight additional 
institutions ... recruited" for a second study; the study program "currently involves 21 centers in 
the United States." The Director did not dispute the overall importance and impact of this multi­
institutional study, but it does not follow that every participant has earned national or international 
acclaim as a result, and the leader of the project does not explain how the Beneficiary, in particular, 
achieved acclaim through his participation. 
As another example of discussion of the Beneficiary's impact, one of h B neficiary's mentors states 
that the Beneficiary co-wrote an article that "was referenced in the Cardiac Intensive Care 
Society's 2014 Consensus Statement, I I -.. [which] demonstrates that [the Beneficiary's] research has been used to establish 
treatment protocols." The record does not include a copy of the consensus statement or establish its 
influence and implementation, and thus does not support the mentor's statement on the impact and 
recognition of the Beneficiary's work by the field. 
The Petitioner's statements regarding the significance of the Beneficiary's achievements often go 
beyond what the record reliably supports. For example, in its initial submission, the Petitioner quoted 
a letter in the record as follows: "Because of his expertise and acclaim [the Beneficiary] is one of only 
a few physicians from the State of Ohio selected to be a member of the American Heart Association's 
planning and steering committee." The Petitioner described this committee as a "scientific or 
professional association," but it was a group that convened temporarily in order to organize one 
particular medical conference at the regional level (attracting attendees "from Ohio, Pennsylvania and 
Kentucky"). The individual who provided the quotation does not claim to have been involved in the 
selection of steering committee members, and does not explain how she is otherwise in a position to 
attest to the selection process. 3 The Petitioner does not submit first-hand evidence from the American 
Heart Association to show how it selected steering committee members. 
3 The Petitioner misattributes this quotation to the letter marked as exhibit 33. The quoted passage actually appears in a 
different letter, marked as exhibit 15, from an individual who co-authored a paper with the Beneficiary. Her curriculum 
vitae does not mention membership in the American Heart Association; her specialty is anesthesiology. 
4 
The Petitioner asserts that the Beneficiary's membership as a "Fellow" of the American College of 
Critical Care Medicine "is of particular importance," because it "recognizes individuals who have 
demonstrated significant contributions and have made an impact in the critical care profession at a 
regional, state, or national level." However, the record does not identify the Beneficiary's 
contributions that qualified him for this level of membership or indicate that those contributions 
impacted the field at a national level. The Beneficiary's "Fellow" status does not imply or create any 
presumption that he has had a national impact, because impact "at a regional [or] state ... level" are 
sufficient to qualify for that status. Therefore, the Beneficiary's satisfaction of a requirement for 
"impact ... at a regional, state, or national level" does not rise to the level of national or international 
acclaim that the statute and regulations require. 
The Petitioner submits letters from individuals who assert that the Beneficiary has achieved sustained 
national or international acclaim, but the objective, documentary evidence of record does not provide 
consistent or reliable support for these assertions. The record as a whole portrays the Beneficiary as 
a diligent and productive member of his profession, but does not rise to the much higher level 
necessary to place the Beneficiary among the small percentage at the very top of his field. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league 
level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 
953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of the 
Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary is one of the smal I percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b){l){A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. In visa petition proceedings, it is the 
petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 
8 U.S.C. § 1361. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13189151 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a dermatologist, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit 
comparable evidence if they are able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x) do not readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner established a clinic in I I offering "skincare and aesthetic treatments." She 
asserts that she is "a frequent ... guest in several mass media TV and Radio shows, providing her medical 
expert opinion for skin health & treatments and non-invasive aesthetic treatments." The Petitioner also 
speaks at trade conventions, at the invitation of suppliers. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
I (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
I (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
I (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
I (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
I (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the criterion numbered (ix), relating to 
compensation. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the six other claimed criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we will not disturb the Director's determination regarding the Petitioner's 
remuneration. For the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not 
satisfied the other claimed criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
2 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits information about several I I television and radio programs, and 
screenshots from her YouTube channel of her appearances on those shows. These still images, 
unaccompanied by transcripts, are not sufficient to show that her appearances amounted to published 
material about her, relating to her work, rather than commentary or advice regarding topics within her 
area of expertise. The screenshots show web addresses for the videos on the Petitioner's YouTube 
channel, but the broadcasts were in Spanish and the Petitioner has not provided complete transcripts of 
the broadcasts, with certified translations of their content. Therefore, the Petitioner has shown that the 
broadcasts occurred, but has provided only vague, general information about the subjects discussed. The 
Petitioner has not established that she was the subject of news coverage relating to her work, rather than 
a commentator providing general information and advice about skin care. 
The Petitioner also submits printouts or photocopies from various sources. Many of these materials 
appear to be promotional materials, rather than media coverage. Several publications ran pieces 
promoting the same fat removal procedure, featuring what appears to be the same quotation from the 
Petitioner, or a paraphrased rewording thereof, regarding the importance of consulting with a physician. 
Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling one's products or promoting one's services are 
not generally considered to be published material about the individual.1 
Other submitted pieces are lists of aesthetic procedures, the names of providers, and the prices they charge 
for those procedures. The Petitioner's business is among those listed, sometimes but not always naming 
the Petitioner individually. A list or directory is not about the Petitioner simply because her name, or that 
of her company, is included. 
A reduced-size image of a print article from Gente identifies the Petitioner and her business, but the 
English translation is not complete as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Instead, the Petitioner only 
submits a translation of the story's headline. Therefore, the submitted evidence does not show that the 
article is about the Petitioner, relating to her work in the field. A banner at the bottom of the page shows 
the address, telephone number, and website of the Petitioner's business, which suggests that the piece is 
an advertisement rather than media coverage of the Petitioner. 
The Petitioner submits a photocopy and translation of the first page of an article from the magazine 
Nacer & Crecer. The incomplete article and translation are of limited evidentiary value. The 
Petitioner is the author, rather than the subject, of the article. The submitted fragment consists mainly 
of a discussion of a procedure offered by the Petitioner's business. 
For the above reasons, the Petitioner has not established that the submitted articles and printouts are 
published material about her, relating to her work in the field. 
1 USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADll-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
3 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
The Petitioner submits 14 letters to support her claim that she has made qualifying contributions "by 
taking care of the skin health and image of prominent TV and Radio personalities." Eight of these letters 
are the same, apart from the names and biographical details of the individuals who signed them. The 
identical wording strongly suggests a common author, whom we can infer to be the Petitioner herself.2 
Furthermore, none of the submitted letters identifies any specific original contributions by the Petitioner 
or explain how those contributions are of major significance in the field. Instead, the letters praise the 
Petitioner's skill and indicate that she has mastered cutting-edge technology. There is no indication that 
the Petitioner invented that technology; some of the letters are from companies that developed equipment 
or techniques that she uses. The use of technology developed by others is not an original contribution. 
Apart from the letters, the Petitioner points to her "use of social media." Screenshots prove that her clinic 
has pages on Facebook and lnstagram, but the Petitioner does not explain how her "use of social media" 
amounts to an original contribution, or that such a contribution is of major significance in the field of 
dermatology and skin care. 
Following a request for evidence, the Petitioner has asserted that her media appearances constitute original 
contributions of major significance because she "contributed her medical expertise," but she does not 
identify any new information that she provided to the audience and readers. Instead, the Petitioner appears 
to have discussed existing treatments and techniques. The Petitioner states that she provided "tips" in 
some of these appearances, but does not show that those tips originated with her. Passing along 
information that was already in use among dermatologists is not an original contribution, even if members 
of a given audience were unfamiliar with that information. 
The Petitioner has not identified any original contributions of major significance in her field. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner contends that several of the pieces claimed, above, as published material about her are 
also scholarly articles by her. The Director observed that the materials are not scholarly. On appeal, 
the Petitioner contends that "[t]he publication needs [sic] not be 'scholarly,"' because the regulatory 
language refers to "professional or major trade publications or other major media." The wording of 
the regulation plainly refers to "scholarly articles." A scholarly article should be written for learned 
persons in that field. ("Learned" is defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or 
scholarship.")3 The submitted pieces are written for a general audience, aimed at members of the 
public who seek medical advice or are considering certain cosmetic procedures. 
2 Cf. Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517, 519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
4 
Most of the cited materials are, as discussed above, promotional stories that include brief quotations 
from the Petitioner. The regulation requires the Petitioner's "authorship of scholarly articles," rather 
than brief quotations in what appear to be, essentially, advertisements. 
An article about al I treatment acknowledges "advice" from four dermatologists, one of whom 
is the Petitioner. She asserts that she "collaborated as an Expert Medical Advisor." The Petitioner is 
not the credited author of the article, and the acknowledgment does not specify the nature or extent of 
her input. Furthermore, the article was written for a general, rather than scholarly, level of 
comprehension. For instance, the article explains whatl l is, and how it is isolated from 
otherl !components. From the wording, it is evident that the intended readers are prospective 
patients, rather than trained experts learning how to perform a new procedure. 
The Petitioner is the author of the remaining two articles, but they are not scholarly. The translation 
of the fragment of the Nacer & Crecer article reads as though written for a general readership, rather 
than for learned persons in the field of dermatology. The translation begins: "There are currently 
treatment[s] and new technology that help[] us look much better. Nothing sexier than wearing 
beautiful legs all year long!" As noted above, the Petitioner has not submitted a translation of the 
Gente article, and therefore she has not shown its content to be scholarly. 
The record does not include any scholarly articles written by the Petitioner. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
The Petitioner asserts that she "has been displayed at relevant conferences as a professional speaker ... 
and exhibited" on various broadcast and print media. The Petitioner asserts that the term "showcase" 
"is applicable to any setting, occasion, or medium for exhibiting something or someone, including 
corporate conventions." By regulation, the exhibition or showcase must be "artistic."4 The Petitioner 
has not shown this to be the case with her appearances. 
Also, the purpose of the exhibition or showcase must be to display the individual's work. In this 
instance, the Petitioner spoke at a trade "convention [which] was a showcase of the company's new 
products." The Petitioner submitted letters from officials of several such companies, manufacturers 
of equipment used in the Petitioner's profession. The Petitioner's participation in the promotion of 
suppliers' products does not cause the event to become a display of the Petitioner's work, rather than 
the products being promoted. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 9. 
5 
The Petitioner claims to have performed in a critical role for various media outlets. The Petitioner must 
establish that she has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the 
organization or establishment's activities. 5 
The Petitioner asserts: 
Because of the nature of [the Petitioner's] comments and recommendations when she is 
interviewed by TV Shows, Radio Shows, Newspapers and Magazines, it is critical that 
she provides the best recommendation about skin care treatments and non-invasive 
aesthetics treatments, as well as relevant information to reduce risks an[d] damage to the 
public. Any misinformation can damage the credibility of the TV Show, Radio Show, 
Newspaper or Magazine, thus, [the Petitioner] has played a critical and relevant role for 
these mass media at the time she provides her expertise on the very important issue that is 
skin care and non-invasive aesthetic treatments. 
By the Petitioner's logic, everyone quoted in the media regarding their area of expertise performs in a 
critical role for the publishers or broadcasters that disseminate those quotations. Speaking credibly within 
one's area of authority may be a professional obligation, but the Petitioner has not established that the 
reputations of these broadcasters and publishers hinge, to any significant extent, on the accuracy of the 
Petitioner's comments in print or on camera. 
Initially, the Petitioner cited only her media appearances as critical roles. In later submissions, the 
Petitioner has also asserted that her clinic is "one of the most prestigious centers for skincare ... and 
noninvasive aesthetic treatments irl I." On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she "is the Director 
and owner of one of the most iconic aesthetic clinics inl I," which "is recognized by the most 
distinguished multinational companies specializ[ing] in skincare and aesthetic treatments." The record 
establishes the Petitioner's leading role with her business, but not that it has a distinguished reputation. 
The Petitioner asserts that her clinic's "Facebook page has over 39,000 followers and her lnstagram 
account over 13,000, totaling 52,000 ... people following [the company's] accounts." These numbers 
add up to 52,000 followers only if we assume there is no overlap between the two groups of followers. 
Aside from that issue, the Petitioner does not submit com1arative evidence to show the follower counts 
of other clinics that provide similar services inl Without this context, the follower counts do 
not show that her clinic has a distinguished reputation. The Petitioner submits printouts of blog posts 
about "micro-influencers," but these materials do not provide any basis for comparison between the 
reputation of the Petitioner's clinic and those of rival businesses in the same field. 
The Petitioner claims that published articles in La Nacion identify her clinic as "the best option" or "one 
of the best option[s]" for particular treatments. The articles in question, however, are essentially lists of 
procedures, with information about clinics that perform those procedures. The articles do not describe 
the Petitioner's clinic as being "the best" or "one of the best." The articles do not characterize the 
Petitioner's clinic as anything other than an example of where to obtain a given treatment. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
6 
Evidence of commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner acknowledges that she is not employed in the performing arts, but asserts that her high 
remuneration is comparable evidence under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4). 
The "commercial successes" criterion does not refer to a given individual's personal income. That 
income is already covered by the above criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). Rather, criterion (x) 
concerns the commercial success of projects in which the individual participated, documented by 
evidence such as box office receipts for films or record sales. The Petitioner has not identified any 
products or projects that would be analogous to a motion picture, play, concert, or recording, such that 
it would be comparable to commercial successes in the performing arts, and she has not submitted 
evidence comparable to box office receipts or record sales. Instead, she submits a letter from her 
accountant, and copies of two income tax returns that do not specify the source(s) of her income. 
We agree that this criterion does not readily apply to the Petitioner's occupation, but the Petitioner has 
not submitted comparable evidence as the regulations require. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has submitted letters from prominent clients, and shown 
that she has appeared on television on some occasions, but the record as a whole does not demonstrate 
a level of recognition that indicates the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrates a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(1)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19498633 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2022 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, an economic historian, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Satisfaction of at least three criteria, however, does not, in and of itself, establish eligibility for this 
classification. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). Where a petitioner meets these 
initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (discussing a two-part review where the 
documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the 
context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Between 2000 and 2011, the Petitioner studied economics and related fields at various universities in 
Turkey, culminating in a Ph.D. in Labor Economics froml I University. He remained at 
Universi as an assistant professor from 2012 to 2016, and as an associate professor from 2016 to 2017. 
· · · · · · anslate as I 
2013), which began as his doctoral 
thesis, and (2015). Since 2019, the Petitioner has worked as an "economic history researcresearcher and professor" at thel at the University 
in I Germany. Correspondence in the record indicates that the Petitioner intends to work as 
a visiting scholar at the University I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied six of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and scholarly 
articles. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criteria. 
2 
Upon review of the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied at least one further criterion. 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) calls for documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser 
nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
A translated certificate from th 
indicates that the Petitioner's book "received Honorable Mention award in the 
contextofthe in2015." Therecordshows _____________________ 
that the Petitioner received this award at the same ceremony at which the President of Turkey presented 
three Academy Prizes. The record indicates that the Academy Prize is more significant 
than a award, award, but the record establishes that the award is also nationally recognized, 
presented by Turkey's national government at a ceremony that received some degree of media coverage. 
The existence of a more important award does not disqualify the I award. 
Because the satisfaction of a third evidentiary criterion is sufficient for us to proceed to a final merits 
determination, we need not discuss the Petitioner's other claims regarding membership in associations, 
published material about the Petitioner, and original contributions of major significance in the context of 
the initial evidentiary criteria. Below, however, we will discuss some of this evidence insofar as it relates 
to the larger claim that the Petitioner has earned sustained national or international acclaim. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
Because the Petitioner submitted the required initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
We begin by noting that, while the Petitioner has satisfied the requirements of three of the regulatory 
criteria, two of these activities appear to be routine among academic scholars. The Petitioner's 
authorship of scholarly articles meets the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), and his peer 
review of manuscripts by other scholars constitutes judging the work of others under 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner relies heavily on the response to his 2013 bookl I We acknowledge that this 
book won an award at a ceremony attended by the President of Turkey, and was the subject of a review 
on a major Turkish news site,I 12 The Petitioner has submitted several letters from individuals 
asserting that the book is an important contribution to scholarship in his field. But the response to this 
1 See also 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(2), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (stating that USCTS officers should then 
evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, 
by a preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
2 The Director concluded that the I I article does not meet the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). in part 
because the article was published without the required author credit. We do not have the discretion to disregard regulatory 
requirements. but we can give the article due consideration in the broader context of the final merits determination. 
3 
one book, published about seven years before the Petitioner filed his petition in 2020, does not rise to 
the sustained acclaim that the statute requires. 
A Google Scholar printout submitted with the petition shows thatl had garnered 34 citations 
between 2013 and 2020. The Petitioner provides no context to show that only highly influential works 
in his field would achieve 34 citations over the course of seven years, and he does not otherwise 
explain how this number of citations places him in the small percentage at the very top of the field as 
the regulations require.I I is, by a wide margin, the Petitioner's most heavily-cited scholarly 
work. According to the Google Scholar printout, each of the Petitioner's other cited works had 
accumulated between 1 and 14 citations at the time of filing. This evidence is insufficient to establish 
his sustained national or international acclaim. 
Furthermore, the Google Scholar printout does not indicate that the Petitioner's output after 
has attracted comparable notice. Out of all the Petitioner's published work after 2015, only one article 
had received one citation. Eight months after the filing date, the Petitioner submitted an updated 
Google Scholar printout, showing some increase in the total number of citations, but the second-most­
cited article remained at 14 citations, and once again there was only one citation for one article from 
201 7. A third printout, submitted on appeal, shows citation figures from 13 months after the filing 
date. Citations of !continue to accumulate, but the second-listed item has gained only one 
further citation. Citation of the Petitioner's post-2015 work continues to be minimal, with two articles 
from 2017 showing one citation each. Taken together, the citation information does not show that the 
field's response to his wider body of work is consistent with sustained national or international acclaim 
as the statute requires. 
Also, the first two Google Scholar printouts do not show any published work after 2017, either cited 
or uncited. (The third printout, submitted on appeal, shows one uncited article from 2019 and another 
from 2020.) The burden is on the Petitioner to show eligibility at the time of filing, and he "must 
continue to be eligible through adjudication." See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). We acknowledge the 
Petitioner's submission of evidence showing that he would soon make presentations at academic 
conferences, but he has not shown that participation of this kind is limited to those scholars who have 
achieved national or international acclaim. (We note that the Petitioner pointed to these presentations 
as examples of his original contributions of major significance under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(v), but if the 
work had not yet been presented to the field, then it is premature at best to claim that this then­
unpublished work was of major significance.) 
The Petitioner has submitted a number ofletters which, he states, attest to the significance of his work. 
Most of these letters are from colleagues and former students. Some of the letters indicate that the 
Petitioner brings a new approach to historiography, relying on previously unexamined archival 
materials, providing new insights into the laborl I inl I and offering a 
new perspective on historical research that emphasizes its ongoing relevance to modem events. But 
the record does not establish how these attributes have influenced historiography in Turkey or beyond, 
rather than simply representing traits that the letter writers admire in the Petitioner's writings. 
Two letters are from individuals who have cited the Petitioner's published work. Both of these letters 
are very brief -two paragraphs each -and they offer emphatic but general assertions. One letter 
indicates that the Petitioner "has published the most prominent and detailed studies on the I I 
4 
labor history and made huge contributions to the area of economic history." The other letter goes into 
slightly more detail, indicating thatl I is "a reference point for all scholars involved in the field 
of history worldwide," because the Petitioner "not only dealt with all the 
unlike teams of employees individually, but he also investigated the peculiar socio-economic 
conditions prevailing in land their crucial result on the workers' status." The brevity of the 
letters, and general nature of the assertions, do not offer sufficient support for the Petitioner's claim to 
be an acclaimed researcher at the top of his field. 
Regarding his intended work in the United States, the Petitioner submits a printout of an email 
conversation from July 2019, and asserts that it shows that a I political and 
economic historian" has expressed an "existing interest in working with [the Petitioner] atl I 
In the email exchange, the Petitioner introduced himself and stated: "I aim to continue my research 
in the USA by July 2020. . . . I believe that it would be a great opportunity for me to study with you 
at I as a visiting scholar for one-year (from July 2020 to June 2021)." Thel I professor's 
response reads, in part: "Thank you for your interest in and your interest in working with me. 
I look forward to working with you." The Petitioner has highlighted the latter sentence in yellow ink. 
There is no direct indication that thq I professor was already familiar with the Petitioner's work, 
and no indication that the professor's message was more than a polite acknowledgment of a routine 
inquiry about a potential fellowship. The record does not show that, beyond this expression of intent, 
the Petitioner took any formal steps to apply for a visiting scholar position, or thatl I formally 
accepted him into such a position. Taken in context, this brief communication does not indicate that 
the Petitioner is a recognized figure in his field as he seeks to establish. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated sustained national or international 
acclaim. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 19633653 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 25, 2022 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a researcher in biochemistry, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from the National Institute _________ I I in I India, in 2007. While the record does not provide a complete accounting of his 
employment history, it does show that he has spent several years conducting research in the United States 
as a J-1 nonimmigrant exchange visitor at various universities, most recently! I University in I I Missouri. His research has touched on various areas of medical interest, sometimes using 
animal models to study I 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (iii), Published material about the individual in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, relating to judging and authorship 
of scholarly articles. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he also meets the other three claimed 
criteria. 
Upon review of the record, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has satisfied the criteria 
related to judging and scholarly articles. We will discuss the other claimed criteria below. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
2 
The Petitioner initially asserted that he satisfies this criterion throu h his recei t of a doctoral degree; 
qualification for a lectureship from India's Council of and a senior 
research fellowship from the Indian Council of ______ The Petitioner did not submit any 
evidence that these achievements constitute prizes or awards, rather than professional credentials. The 
Petitioner does not pursue these claims on appeal. 
Following the Director's issuance of a request for evidence (RFE , the Petitioner has claimed to satisfy 
this criterion through two certificates from the Publications Board indicating that 
he has "been approved as a subject of biographical record in for 2011-2012 
and 2016-2017. The certificates indicate that "inclusion ... is limited to individuals who possess 
professional integrity, demonstrate outstanding achievement in their respective fields and have made 
innumerable contributions to society as a whole." Apart from copies of the certificates themselves, the 
Petitioner has not submitted any evidence to establish that his I I inclusion is nationally or 
internationally recognized as a prize or award for excellence in his field. The certificates are not evidence 
of their own national or international recognition. Furthermore, the certificates do not identify the 
"outstanding achievement" or "innumerable contributions" that earned the Petitioner a place in the 
publication. Without objective, independent evidence to provide context, the certificates do not satisfy 
the regulatory requirements. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a printout of the Wikipedia entry for I Wikipedia 
articles lack indicia of reliability and warrant very limited probative weight in immigration proceedings. 
Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516 (BIA 2015); see also Bing Shun Liv. Holder, 400 Fed.Appx. 854, 
857-58 (5th Cir. 2010) (expressing disapproval of the reliance on Wikipedia and or similarly unreliable 
internet sources); Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909, 910-11 (8th Cir. 2008) (holding that an article from 
the online encyclopedia Wikipedia is not a reliable source of evidence in immigration proceedings). Even 
then, the article itself mostly focuses on the publisher's history, and does not indicate that inclusion in I b a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion because one of his articles "got accepted as a book 
chapter," and others were cited in forums other than journal articles. Neither the book nor a promotional 
press release advertising the book constitutes qualifying published material about the Petitioner. 
Regarding the specified citations of his work that the Petitioner points to for this category, none of the 
articles is about the Petitioner, or appears to emphasize the Petitioner's work over the other cited works. 
One of the three named citing works is an e-book chapter, which the Petitioner submits with the 
handwritten annotation "look for page #37." Page 37 is the first page of the article's bibliography, listing 
17 articles, including one by the Petitioner. The article is aboutl I I I The second citing work, from a website about rare diseases in India, describes! I . I I an I disease found in a region of Southern India. The Petitioner co-wrote two of 
the seven articles cited as references. The third citation is a listing in a !database. The entry for a 
3 
called lists 53 articles, including one by the Petitioner, not as sources, but as examples of 
scholarly literature discussing the The submitted materials are not about the Petitioner. Rather, 
they include works by the Petitioner in bibliographies or lists of references. The Petitioner's evidence, 
therefore, does not meet the regulatory requirements for the criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion because he "published 14 research papers in peer 
reviewed journals and their total number of citations [is] 446." A printout from Google Scholar lists 16 
articles published between 2007 and 2014. Five of those articles have been cited between 45 and 124 
times each; eight others were cited between 4 and 1 7 times. At the time he submitted the printout, the 
Petitioner did not submit evidence to give context to the citation figures. 
In response to the RFE, the Petitioner submitted some of the citing publications and other materials that 
refer, in various ways, to his publications. These materials show that the Petitioner has contributed useful 
knowledge to his field, but the major significance of those contributions is not self-evident. Describing 
contributions does not inherently establish their significance without further context. For example, many 
of the submitted materials indicate that, circa 2010-11, the Petitioner was on a research team at the 
University ______ that developed a lmodel with a 
which other researchers have used in subsequent research. The reliance on this I I model 
appears to underlie many of the citations of the Petitioner's work. But the record does not specify the 
Petitioner's role in developing the model. An associate professor atl I provided a letter on the 
Petitioner's behalf, praising the Petitioner's skills but providing little information about the specific nature 
of the Petitioner's contributions. In the letter, the professor refers to "a I model ... that I have 
created"; he gives no indication that the Petitioner was involved in the creation of the model, rather than 
other tasks ( such as subsequent experiments regarding 
The Petitioner also does not show that the mouse model developed atl I has been of greater 
importance to medical research than countless other! !models developed 
elsewhere. In short, the information about the model relates to some of the Petitioner's 
contributions, but does not specifically identify those contributions or inherently establish their major 
significance relative to the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits web printouts from a website called Dimensions, which evaluates 
citation histories for given articles and indicates that some of his articles are "highly cited" or "extremely 
highly cited." This information provides some context for the citation figures submitted previously, but 
the record still lacks independent, objective evidence to explain how the Petitioner's contributions are of 
major significance such that his achievements have been recognized in his field of expertise. 
Beyond the citation information, the Petitioner has submitted letters from various mentors, describing the 
work that the Petitioner did in their laboratories, and expressing the opinion that the Petitioner is a highly 
skilled researcher. But these individuals do not explain how his contributions are of major significance 
in the field. We note that, while the Director discussed these letters in the context of the Petitioner's 
contributions, the Petitioner originally submitted them more generally as "recommendation letters." 
4 
While the Petitioner has amply documented his involvement in published medical research, the record 
does not establish how his contributions are of major significance to the field. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
We note that, while the Director concluded that the Petitioner satisfies two of the regulatory criteria, 
neither of those criteria includes internal elements that indicate sustained national or international 
acclaim. The Petitioner has written scholarly articles, although the Google Scholar printout submitted 
with the petition does not show any articles published after 2014. The Petitioner has not explained or 
addressed this dropoff in research output despite his position as a researcher in biochemistry. He has 
also acted as a judge by peer-reviewing articles written by others, but both of these activities appear 
to be routine for researchers in the Petitioner's field. Additionally, as the Petitioner's individual 
contribution to the research cited has not been fully explained, had the case reached a final merits 
determination, these factors would have received greatly diminished weight. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S~ Citizenship. 
and Immigration 
Services 
MATTER OF Y-E-A-Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 26, 2019 
APPEAL OF NEBRASKA SERVICE CENTER DECISION 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a Taekwondo competitor and trainer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability in athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 
203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas 
available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or 
international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive 
documentation. 
The Director.of the Nebraska Service Center denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien 
Worker, concluding the Petitioner had not satisfied any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets three criteria. He argues that the Director's decision 
was erroneous and did not reflect the documentation contained in the record. With his appeal, the 
Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence. 
Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b~ of the Act states in pertinent part: 
(1) Priority workers. --Visas shall first be made available ... to qualified immigrants 
who are aliens described in any of the following subparagraphs (A) through (C): 
(A) Aliens with extraordinary ability. -An alien is described in this subparagraph 
if-
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, 
business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national 
or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized 
in the field through extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
ex:traordinary ability, and 
.
Matter of Y-E-A-
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit 
prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is a major, 
internationally recognized award). Alternatively, he or she must provide documentation that meets 
at least three of the ten categories of evidence listed at 8 C.F.R. §204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items 
· such as awards, memberships, and published material in certain media). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F .3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
-Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
deterniined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
probably true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
At the time of filing, the Petitioner was training at the 
master/owner of the martial arts academy, indicated he intends to hire the Petitioner as the head· 
instructor and that his duties will include "teaching and coaching students, ages 4 years and up, the 
Olympic Sport of.Taek,wondo." 
As the Petitioner has not established that he has received a major, internationally recognizecl award, 
he must satisfy at least three of the ten criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that he meets the following criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), 
membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), and published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Upon review of all of the evidence , we conclude that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
meets the plain language requirements of at least three criteria . 
. Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards.for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204,5(h)(3)(i). 
The Petitioner provided evidence demonstratin g that he won a gold medal at the 2015 
In addition, the record i_ncludes documentation such as media coverage indicating the 
.
Matter of Y-E-A-
national recognition of awards from this,event. Accordingly, the Petitioner has demonstrated that he 
satisfies this criterion. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field.for which class(fication 
is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by recognized 
national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. · 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). . 
The Petitioner contends on appeal that he meets this criterion based on his membership with the 
The Petitioner provided a document that indicated the 
"certifies that [the Petitioner] is registered in the federation registers (as a 
player) ... on 07/07/2001, Olympic sp01is club." It listed six "republican championships" in Egypt 
and 30 "international championships and camps" that he participated in as a member of the 
Taekwondo team. In addition, we note that the record includes a letter from Master/Owner 
of , stating that the Petitioner "is currently on the 
and is one of the top ranked competitors in Taekwondo," as well as internet print-outs from 
https://worldtkd.simplycompete.com listing the Petitioner's license number for 
GMS, and www.ma-regonline indicating he represented the at the 
2016 and placed second in his category. The Petitioner, however, did not 
provide information or. documentary evidence regarding the membership requirements or selection 
processes for the or the 
to establish that any of these associations require outstanding achievements of their members, 
as judged by recognized national or international experts. He therefore has not established that he 
, meets this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in pr<?fessional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field.for which classtfication is sought. Such evidence 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). · 
The Petitioner submitted two articles from the "Ahram Sport" website at http://sport.ahram.org.eg. 
· We note that any document in a foreign language must be accompanied by a full English language 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). The translator must certify that the English language translation 
is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to translate from the foreign language 
into English. Id. Because the Petitioner did not submit properly certified English language 
translations of the articles, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated material 1s 
accurate and thus supports the Petitioner's claims. 
Further, while the articles entitled '' 
" and " 
1" appear to be about-the Petitioner , the record does .not include evidence regarding the 
Ahram Sport website, such as, for instance, documentation regarding its circulation along with 
comparative statistics, to demonstrate that this publication is a form of major media. In addition, the 
submitted · article from the "Al Ahram" website at www.ahram.org.eg is about the Taekwondo event 
3 
.
Matter of Y-E-A-
(' 
in which he competed rather than the Petitioner himself. Specifically, the article entitled "' 
" summarizes numerous individuals' 
performances at the event and only briefly mentiot1s the Petitioner. The plain language of the 
regulatory criterion requires "published material about the alien." Articles that are not about the 
Petitioner do .not meet this regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-00820 at 
*I, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 2008) (upholding a finding that articles about a show are not about the actor). 
Similarly, the record includes online articles from the "Wikipedia" website at 
https://en.wikipedia.org, "Elbalad.news" at www.elbalad.news, and "World Taekwondo United 
News" at www.wtu.kr. The Wikipedia article entitled'\ ," lists 
all first through third place competitors, including the Petitioner, in 16 events.' The Elbalad article 
entitled " " discusses the 
Taekwondo event and only references the Petitioner's participation. The World Taekwondo United 
News article entitled" ," summarizes the event's results and does 
not mention the Petitioner. Accordingly, these articles are not about the Petitioner as required by 
this criterion, nor does the record contain documentation demonstrating the qualifying nature of 
these publications. 
In addition, the Petitioner offered articles from the "Vetogate" website at www.vetogate.com and the 
"Al Bawabh" website at www.albawabhnews.com. Although these two articles are about the 
Petitioner, the authors were not provided and he has not shown that these websites qualify as a form 
of major media. Accordingly, he has not established that he meets this regulatory\criterion. 
Ill. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner is not eligible because he has failed to submit the required initial evidence of either a 
qualifying one-time achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Thus, we do not need to fully address the totality of the materials in a 
final merits determination. Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 119-20. 2 Nevertheless, we advise that we have 
reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the Petitioner 
has established the level of expertise required for the classification sought. The appeal will be 
dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered as an independent and alternate basis 
for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is the petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for 
1 We note that Wikipedia is an online, open source, collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee 
the validity of its content. See General Disclaimer, Wikipedia. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer ; see also Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
· 2 In addition, as the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, we 
need not detennine whether his intended teaching and coaching work constitutes coming to "continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). See also USCIS Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM), ch. 
22.22(i)( I )(C). 
4 
Matter ofY-E-A- . 
the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act, 8 U .S.C. § 1361; Matter ofSkirball Cultural 
Ctr., 25 I&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). 
ORDER: 1he appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofY-E-A-, ID# 2090747 (AAO Feb. 26, 2019) 
,, 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6247741 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a fashion designer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied only two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which she must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )( 1) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The tenn "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner entered the United States as a student to attend! !university in~I --~ 
Kentucky. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled two of the initial 
evidentiary criteria, judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) and artistic display at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vii). The record reflects that the Petitioner served as a jury member evaluating student 
fashion designs and theses and displayed her work at fashion shows. Accordingly, we agree with the 
Director that the Petitioner met the judging and artistic display criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets two additional criteria. After reviewing all of the 
evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner does not establish that she satisfies the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The Petitioner contends that she satisfies this criterion based on a 2008 article published in Dawn 
Newspaper and a 2005 article published in MAG the Weekly. In order to satisfy this criterion, the 
Petitioner must demonstrate published material about her in professional or major trade publications 
or other major media, as well as the title, date, and author of the material.1 
On appeal, the Petitioner provides a photoshoot page entitled, ~~---~---~" published 
in Dawn Images. Although the evidence contains a brief "designer's profile" section, along with a 
behind the scenes section of the model, the material reflects a photoshoot rather than published 
material about the Petitioner relating to her work. Articles that are not about an alien do not fulfill this 
1 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 7 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). 
Moreover, while the Petitioner contends that I I authored the material, the evidence shows 
thatl I only authored the "behind the scenes" section. Here, the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
the author of the remaining material, including the "designer's profile" section. 
Furthermore, although the Petitioner claims that Dawn Newspaper published the material, the 
evidence reflects publication in Dawn Images. In fact, the Petitioner offers a letter froml.__ __ ~___. 
correspondent, who stated that "Dawn has published [the Petitioner's] work ... in its weekly 
publication named 'Dawn Images."' While the Petitioner submits evidence relating to Dawn 
(newspaper), she did not provide evidence pertaining to Dawn Images (weekly), nor did she establish 
that Dawn Images is a professional or major trade publication or other major medium. 2 
Similarly, as it pertains to the article entitled, I I' published in Mag the Weekly, the 
material reflects coverage of a fashion show rather than published material about the Petitioner relating 
to her work. While the article mentions te debut of the fcetitioner and another designer, it is about a 
fashion show at thel lby the ,.__ ____ _.of Pakistan. 
Further, the Petitioner asserts that Mag the Weekly "is a Fashion Magazine which is owned by the Jang 
Group of Newspaper [sic]" and "qualifies as a professional or major trade publications [sic] or other 
major media [sic]." Although she previously provided screenshots advertising the magazine as 
"famous for its unique and stylish publications," "the Largest Circulated Magazine in Pakistan," and 
"an English Popular Magazine," the Petitioner did not submit independent, probative evidence to 
support the magazine's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self-promotional material of the publisher. 
See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06 5105 SJO (C.D. CA July 6, 2007) ajf'd 2009 WL 604888 (9th Cir. 
2009) (concluding that self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to the magazine's status 
is not reliant evidence of a major medium). Moreover, the Petitioner did not establish that ownership 
by the Jang Group of Newspapers necessarily shows that Mag the Weekly is a professional or major 
trade publication or other major medium. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Petitioner contends that she ualifies for this criterion based on her f ositio[s with the I I I L the and 3 She references 
letters from.__ ______ __. ~--------~' and.__ ______ __. As it relates 
to a leading role, the evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
3 The Petitioner did not previously claim eligibility for this criterion based on her roles with these organizations. 
3 
appropriate matching duties, can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. 4 Regarding a 
critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of 
significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the 
title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the role is or 
was critical. 5 
Although the letters confirm the Petitioner's employment, they do not demonstrate that she performed 
in a leading or critical role for any of the organizations. Instead, the letters briefly described the 
Petitioner's projects or assignments without providing specific, detailed information or explaining 
how such tasks represent leading or critical roles. 6 For instance, although! I indicated that 
she hired the Petitioner to "set up and run the design and production department for the Project I I" she did not explain how the Petitioner's position fit in the overall hierarchy ofDor how 
working on a project withinOcontributed to the organization's overall standing in the field. 
Likewise,! I stated that the Petitioner "completed multiple tasks" working with several 
humanitarian causes. While the Petitioner's work with internally displaced pTple is almirable,D 
did not elaborate on how she performed in a leading or critical role for In addition, --~--, 
.__ ___ -+>-......._......,........,xplain how the Petitioner occupied a leadership position or how her performance 
Similarly,! I indicated that the Petitioner "train~rtisans in product development, 
created 7 production centers in districts o~ I district L___J, and connected the enterprises to 
the main street market." Althoug~ I provided the Petitioner's job accomplishments, he did 
not show how such achievements reflected a leading role or was crucial tol Is overall standing. 
Here, the letters do not establish that she held a leading position, nor do they contain specific 
information signifying that she was essential to any of the organizations. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not show thatD, I I, orl I have a distinguished reputation. 7 
Although the Petitioner provides website addresses for the organizations, she does not supplement the 
record with screenshots or other evidence supporting the website addresses. Moreover, as the website 
addresses indicate "about," "where-we-work," and "what-we-do," the Petitioner did not demonstrate 
how such information would reflect the organizations' distinguished reputations. Here, the submission 
of website addresses is not sufficient to establish the standings or statures of the organizations. As 
such, the Petitioner did not show that the organizations enjoy eminent reputations consistent with this 
regulatory criterion. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that she fulfills this criterion. 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10. 
5 Id. 
6 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (stating that letters from individuals with personal 
knowledge of the significance of a petitioner's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful in making this 
determination as long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the role for 
the organization or establishment was leading or critical). 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 10 (providing that Webster's online dictionary defines 
distinguished as marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of her work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Petitioner has judged students and displayed her work, the record does not contain 
sufficient evidence establishing that she is among the upper echelon in her field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 6222120 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mechanical engineer, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability 
if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. " 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then they must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. atl !University, in the .... l -------r-----r-- ___ .....,1 I I He is now employed as a mechanical engineer at l~----~I in I I I lcalifornia. ~-~ 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met three criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director found that the Petitioner met the fourth and sixth criteria, but not the fifth, relating to 
contributions of major significance. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he also made qualifying 
contributions. After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that he satisfied all three 
claimed criteria. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) calls for evidence of the alien's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, 
or business-related contributions of major significance in the field. The Petitioner asserts that he has 
met this criterion through citation of his published work and through submission ofletters from experts 
in his field. These contributions relate to three interrelated projects at the I I 
2 
• I I rob,.:.ot.:.:.id.:..!::=:::;----'ltechnology 
• Pioneering robotic I I technology for space debris removal • I technology for UAV/drone applications 
The Petitioner contends that "leading experts all over the world have used [the Petitioner's] work as a 
major benchmark to guide and compare their own work inl !robotics." The Petitioner also 
asserts that his "research invented a new theory and technology for robotics field. His robotics I lwork has fundamentally improved the state of technology, and profoundly advanced the 
research areas of national importance." 
We agree with the Petitioner's assertion that the Director did not give sufficient weight to letters in 
the record, both from collaborators and from researchers who have not worked with the Petitioner. A 
number of these researchers trained at the I I but their time there did not overlap with that of the 
Petitioner. 
.... T!c...!h~e:.!::l=:::;-----'lprofessor who lead~ describes the Petitioner's work "applying principles of 
._I __ __.I technology inspired bye==} and developing novel robotic I ~ 
The adhesive develo our laboratory remains unique in terms of having a very 
low force.___-.- ______ while also providing useful normal and shear stresses 
for locomotion .__ ____ _. [The Petitioner's] particular contributions include 
learning how to harness these forces for acquiring and handling large objects in space 
(where almost no other technology will work) and for enabling quadrotors to land and 
perch on walls and ceilings. 
Concerning I I technology used in manufacturing, such as "handling glass panels and delicate 
objects," the professor states: 
Current technology relies on pneumatics and vacuum~ '. w:ich are cumbersome, 
slow, and prone to leaving a visible mark .... The newltechnology that [the 
Petitioner] developed does not have these constraints, and once applied in industry, it 
can reduce costs by more than 50%. 
The group leader of~---------~at thel .------.~ 
which sponsored some of the Petitioner's research, stated that research teams a~ .... --__.~d 
collaborated onl I adhesives before the Petitioner joined the project, but early results 
"achieved less than 20% of the material's potential." After the Petitioner identified "intrinsic design 
flaws" and "designed several ... prototypes with his new insights," performance improved to "96% 
material efficiency." 
The record shows that some of the Petitioner's published papers attracted coverage in science 
publications, and researchers at other laboratories attest that they have relied on, and built upon, the 
Petitioner's published work in robotics. The Petitioner has prov~Iicient detail to establish the 
nature and significance of his contributions to the projects at thel__J 
3 
As the Petitioner has demonstrated that he satisfies three criteria, we will evaluate the totality of the 
evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
While the Petitioner has been deeply involved in important robotics research, the record, in the 
aggregate, indicates that any acclaim resides predominantly with thel I and its head, rather than 
specifically with the Petitioner. Recognition of the laboratory preceded the Petitioner's involvement 
there, and the Petitioner has not shown that acclaim has followed him in his endeavors after leaving I I Furthermore, the Petitioner has not shown that his work at the I I consistently had a 
significantly greater impact than other research that occurred there during the same period. 
The Petitioner has judged the work of others in his field, but only in the context of routine peer review 
of papers submitted for publication in journals or presentation at conferences. The invitations to 
perform this peer review indicate that the Petitioner was selected based upon his expertise in the field, 
but he has not shown that the number of these requests or the reputation of the requesting organizations 
reflects standing above others performing similar work. 
In his appeal brief: the Petitioner has relied heavily on citations to his published research, all of which 
originated from work conducted during his time at the I I He quotes Thomson Reuters' The 
World's Most I11fluential Scientific Minds 2015: "One measure of scientific eminence is to identify 
authors who have been prolific in the production of highly cited reports, according to the unique store 
of statistics maintained by Thomson Reuters." The Petitioner contends: "According to this 
benchmark, [ the Petitioner] is surely one of the eminent researchers by his ability to produce a number 
of the most cited papers within a short period of his research career." 
The Thomson Reuters publication does not serve the same purpose as, or take the place o±: the 
regulatory requirements. Nevertheless, given the Petitioner's reliance on the Thomson Reuters report, 
it is important to consider how Thomson Reuters defines "highly cited." If the Petitioner defines 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form T-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the 
evidence together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a 
preponderance of the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
4 
"highly cited" in a different way than Thomson Reuters, then quotations from the report cannot provide 
meaningful support to the Petitioner's arguments. The Petitioner cannot reasonably ask that we give 
consideration to the report's language, but not to its definitions of key terminology. In this respect, it 
is significant that the Petitioner has not submitted the entire Thomson Reuters report. 
The report states: "Highly cited papers rank in the top 1 % ... of the citation distributions of 
comparable papers, those matched for field and age." Even then, not every researcher who has 
produced some highly cited papers has been "prolific" in that production. The report refers to a list of 
"3,126 Highly Cited Researchers" out of "about nine million researchers in the world today." The 
Petitioner does not submit that list, nor does he claim to be among those listed. Thus, the Petitioner 
does not show that he meets the definition of a "highly cited" researcher contemplated in the report. 
The Petitioner also provides separately compiled citation statistics for articles in the broad category of 
engineering. At the time of filing, Google Scholar listed 19 articles by the Petitioner, 17 of which had 
been cited. Only four of the Petitioner's articles fell within the top 1 %, Thomson Reuters' threshold 
for "highly cited." Also, all four of those articles were published in 2016 or 2017 when single-digit 
citation rates were sufficient to warrant such high placement; the articles had between 2 and 12 
citations each at the time of filing. Among all articles published before 2016, the most-cited articles 
had citation figures substantially higher than what the Petitioner's work had accumulated. As time 
passes, the gap between the top 10% and the top 1 % grows considerably wider; most of the Petitioner's 
cited work falls within or below that gap. 
Also, as noted above, the Petitioner rd not jrovide a basis to compare the citation of his work to that 
of other articles originating from the during the same period of time. 
Continued citation of the Petitioner's work after the filing date speaks to the significance of that work, 
which we have granted, above; but it cannot retroactively establish eligibility at the time of filing. The 
Petitioner must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
The Petitioner asserts that the citing articles themselves singled out his work for special attention and 
praise, but this conclusion arises from a highly selective reading of the evidence. For example, the 
Petitioner highlighted the following passage from a submitted article: "These systems enabled many 
impressive research results that were not previously possible owing to limitations such as the weight, 
accuracy, or the dynamic range of the onboard sensor.2-9" (Emphasis added by the Petitioner.) This 
passage cited eight source articles, one of which was the Petitioner's. Furthermore, the "systems" to 
which the passage refers were not systems that the Petitioner developed. Rather, the article referred 
to "motion capture systems," capable of being mounted on mobile robotic devices including, but not 
limited to, those atl I Thus, the highlighted passage cannot reasonably be seen as a 
specific endorsement of the Petitioner's work. 
Other highlighted passages refer to the Petitioner's work as "promising," while still others are self­
citations by the Petitioner's mentors and collaborators. 
The record shows that the Petitioner trained successfully at a highly-regarded robotics laboratory, but 
we do not conclude that this work earned him sustained individual acclaim at the very top of his field. 
5 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not established the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
G U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11823960 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer engineer and researcher, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the record 
established that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements, it did not establish, as 
required, that the Petitioner has sustained national or international acclaim and is an individual in the 
small percentage at the very top of the field. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner earned a Ph.D. in electrical and computer engineering from I I University, and 
underwent postdoctoral traring at Td I from 2016 to 2018. 
His w rk involved communication relating to the Internet of Things (IoT), such as the 
use of to search inventory! I and scannin medical implants powered byB 
=====-=at=h:.:.er=--t=h:.:;an batteries. He is now a senior engineer at where "he is focusing o I I networks architecturesj continu[ing] research into.__ ___ ___, network design, as well 
as network I lthrougH~--~_techniques."1 The Petitioner is named on several U.S. patents. 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim and 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if their 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. 
See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 
1119-20. 2 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
1 We note that the Petitioner submits a copy of an approval notice, showing thatl I filed an immigrant petition on his 
behalf in March 2019, seeking to classify him as an outstanding professor or researcher under section 203(b )(1 )(B) of the 
Act. That petition, approved in May 2019, has an earlier priority date than the petition now on appeal. For visa number 
allocation purposes, both petitions fall within the same classification. Therefore, the approval of the present petition would 
not expedite the Petitioner's ability to become a lawful permanent resident. Furthermore, because the Petitioner's 
employment at! !predates the filing ot: and is not predicated upon, the present petition, the dismissal of this appeal 
does not present any legal obstacle to his continued employment there while he pursues adjustment of status incident to 
that employment. 
2 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
2 
The Director acknowledged that the Petitioner has written scholarly articles and participated in peer 
review of articles written by others. Nevertheless, writing and reviewing such articles appear to be routine 
in the Petitioner's field, rather than a privilege reserved for acclaimed individuals at the top of the field. 
The Director also noted that others have cited the Petitioner's published work, but the Director determined 
that the Petitioner did not establish that only those at the top of the field are cited at a comparable rate. 
The Director concluded that, while the Petitioner "has won the respect of his collaborators, employers, 
and others ... , the record stops short of ... [ establishing] sustained national or international acclaim." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director "fail[ ed] to review the substantial documentary evidence 
of record showing Beneficiary to be a top figure within the area of I I network and automation." 
The Petitioner states, for instance, that the Director disregarded evidence showing that the Petitioner ''was 
asked to [participate in] peer review because of his sustained national and international acclaim." 
The evidence does not fully support the Petitioner's assertions on appeal. For example, the Petitioner 
states: 
Because of Petitioner's work and his sustained acclaim, Petitioner was invited to peer 
review 21 different articles for 3 high-impact and internationally circulated journals. 
Generally only those who are at the very top of their area of expertise are invited to peer 
review on these journals, and the submitted evidence includes proof that Petitioner was 
asked to peer review because of his sustained acclaim (see Petition Exhibit 7.2). He was 
also asked to serve on three technical program committees because of his extraordinary 
ability. 
Exhibit 7.2 is a set of email printouts relating to an invitation for the Petitioner to review a manuscript 
submitted for publication in Transactions on Mobile Computing (TMC). The invitation message from an 
associate editor reads, in part: 
I am overseeing the review process of this paper and believe you are one of the experts 
best qualified to judge whether or not this paper should be accepted by the journal. 
TMC relies heavily on expert reviewers such as yourself to maintain the quality and 
relevance of the journal. ... 
If you are unable to complete the review at this time, we would be grateful if you could 
recommend a qualified student, postdoc, or colleague to review this paper. 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
This message does not support the claim that "only those who are at the very top of their area of expertise 
are invited" to participate in peer review. The letter refers to the Petitioner as an "expert," but one can be 
an "expert" without being "at the very top of [one's] area of expertise." The quoted invitation clearly 
indicates that students and postdoctoral trainees participate in that journal's peer review process, even 
though, by definition, they have not yet completed their training. The Petitioner himself was still a 
doctoral student when he received the quoted invitation in 2016. The record shows that the Petitioner 
received one peer review invitation in November 2011, less than two years after he received his bachelor's 
degree. None of the invitation emails in the record indicate or imply that peer review is a privilege 
restricted for top experts, rather than a responsibility shared by individuals with relevant subject matter 
knowledge. 
The Petitioner states that 20 submitted articles show that "his research was featured in media across the 
world," and protests that the Director inaccurately referred to "merely 'an article."' With the lone 
exception of a 2015 article in al I newsletter, reporting that the Petitioner "won third place in [a] 
Student Paper ComP,etition," all of the submitted articles date from 2017 and 2018, most of them either 
published directly bOor sourced ~ress releases. (The Petitioner acknowledges that several 
such articles were "re-shared" from L_Js website.) This narrow time window does not indicate a 
sustained history of media attention to his work, either before or after his time ac=]_. Because this media 
attention is almost entirely limited to the Petitioner's work aO it bears noting that the Petitioner does 
not show that these projects received more media attention than other computer science projects atD 
Most of these articles do not mention the Petitioner's name, and therefore neither reflect nor contribute to 
the Petitioner's acclaim in the field. Others list the Petitioner among the coauthors of various papers but 
do not single him out or indicate that the entire research team stands at the top of the field. Thus,D 
has not publicly highlighted the Petitioner's contributions to the research that took place there in 2017 
and 2018. 
Regarding the Director's reference to "an article," the one published article that devotes significant 
attention to the Petitioner appeared in the 2018 issue of IEEE Si nal Processin Ma 
The article begins by stating that.__ _______________ ~------...--,-......, I t' and profiles three exam les. One of those three exam les was 
development of "a system that allows I I to.__ ____ ----,---------.----____. 
from tens of meters away," so that specific ite!lls can be quickly located.___~-------' The article 
includes several quotations from the Petitioner, whom the article identifies as the lead researcher on the 
project. The article does not indicate that the various projects have already had a significant impact, 
thereby winning acclaim for the main participants. Rather, it describes the various projects as presenting 
"promising" "possibilities." The article does not indicate that the Petitioner is an acclaimed researcher, 
and the Petitioner has not shown that the publication of the article has contributed substantially to his 
recognition in the field. 
In all, the articles in the record indicate that the media attention owes more to the reputation and acclaim 
ofc=] as an institution, rather than to the Petitioner as an individual. Consistent with this conclusion, 
the record contains no articles about the Petitioner's subsequent work atl I 
4 
Letters in the record likewise focus on the Petitioner's work at~ (and, in some instance, on the 
Petitioner's earlier undergraduate research atl I which likewise involved I O I D-These letters are not without weight, and they support the conclusion that the Petitioner has made 
original contributions of major significance. But, while the letters discuss the practical importance of 
certain contributions by the Petitioner, they do not establish that the Petitioner's work has led to him being 
nationally or internationally acclaimed as a researcher at the very top of his field. 
The Petitioner asserts that his published articles are among the "most extensively cited" in the field, being 
"among the top 1 % among Computer Science articles." At the time of filing, the Petitioner documented 
18 articles published in journals or conference proceedings. According to a 2019 table from Clarivate 
Analytics that the Petitioner submitted, 1 % of computer science articles published in 2017 had been cited 
27 or more times. One of the Petitioner's 2017 articles had 30 citations at the time of filing. None of the 
Petitioner's other articles surpassed the 1 % threshold at the time of filing. As such, the submitted evidence 
indicates some degree of influence for certain projects, but does not establish a pattern of heavy citation 
consistent with the sustained acclaim that the statute and regulations demand. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the recognition of his work is 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or demonstrates a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate 
that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Rather, his work at a 
prestigious institution attracted a certain level of publicity that does not appear to have followed him 
in his subsequent career. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13189490 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a chemistry researcher, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director also concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that his entry into the United States 
will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a pet1t10ner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner previously worked as a researcher at universities in India and Korea, and a pharmaceutical 
company in India. At the time he filed the petition, the Petitioner was a research associate at the University 
of1 ~ The Petitioner asserted his intention to remain at~ permanently if the 
petition were approved, but he did not submit evidence from D confirming that the rmplyer 
considered the position to be permanent. Six months after filing the petition, the Petitioner left for 
a position as a postdoctoral research instructor at the University otl I 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized 
award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied three of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; and 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (iv) and (vi). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed criterion, numbered (v). 
Upon review of the record, as discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the criteria numbered (iv) and (vi), but not (v). 
Evidence of the alien's original scient#fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In denying the petition, the Director stated that, while the Petitioner submitted detailed descriptions of his 
original contributions, the record does not establish the major significance of those contributions. 
Therefore, we will concentrate here on the question of major significance, rather than on the sometimes 
highly technical details of the Petitioner's contributions. We note that those technical details derive 
2 
largely from a series of letters in the record. The Petitioner asserts that these letters are of independent 
origin, but several of them are formatted in a manner similar or identical to the lengthy introductory letter 
submitted with the petition, sometimes with the same wording. For instance, five of the letters include 
the following section headings relating to the Petitioner's work atOUniversity: 
Project #1: .... I ___ _.I analogues with potent antiD activity 
Project #2: Synthesis of compounds as------.--r'signaling blockers for the 
treatment of Rheumatoid arthritis and inflammation 
Project #3: Discovery of a novel series o_,_J ----,,--...,,....--_.I derivatives a~ I I inhibitors ~---~ 
In four instances, the word "Rheumatoid" is arbitrarily capitalized, as above. Five letters also include the 
same misspelling, indicating that the Petitioner "published his findings in the Bullet [sic] of the Korean 
Chemical Society." The similarities in language strongly suggest a common author, whom we can infer 
to be the Petitioner himself. 1 
The Petitioner highlights five points on appeal, some more specific than others: 
• Petitioner has an outstanding record of peer review activity, indicating that he is 
widely recognized to have made significant contributions to his field; 
• Petitioner's research work has resulted in three patents, one of which has been 
assigned to a third-party company for commercial development; 
• Petitioner developed the first and only synthetic inhibitor l~~~I the compound 
I I which is sold by biotechnology companies around the world for use in 
scientific research; 
• Petitioner's publications have been highly cited by others working in his field; 
• Nine of Petitioner's publications were featured inL I which had the stated 
goal of highlighting the most important and innovative reactions developed in organic, 
bioorganic, medicinal, inorganic, and organometallic chemistry. 
Here, we address each of these points. 
Peer review: The Petitioner does not submit documentary evidence- existing separately from the petition 
-to show that the journals' publishers limit peer review activity to those who are "widely recognized to 
have made significant contributions." 
Patents: The Petitioner states: "The fact that [the Petitioner] has two granted patents is unequivocal 
evidence of the major significance of his original scientific research contributions." The issuance of a 
patent, however, attests to the originality of a particular invention or innovation, rather than its 
significance. 
1 Cf Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
3 
The president of a biochemical company that sellsl I to research laboratories states that 
the P~' s "research is of significant interest ... because he has demonstrated ... the synthesis of a 
novel L_Jinhibitor that is both more effective than conventional~ inhibitors and easier to 
manufacture, greatly impacting healthcare, biomedical research, and the economy of the United States." 
The Petitioner provides no direct evidence of the extent of this claimed impact. The very general claims 
quoted above have minimal probative value. 
The journal article which identified! I as an0inhibitor has 17 credited authors at eight 
universities in two countries. The Petitioner is the tenth-named author of the article; the first-named 
author did not work at the same university as the Petitioner. Given the size and diffusion of the 
researchers, it is reasonable to seek more details about the Petitioner's specific contributions to the project. 
A co-author asserts that the Petitioner "discoveredl I," but does not elaborate. This same co-author 
asserts thatl l"cures rheumatoid arthritis," but the record does not include objective documentary 
evidence to confirm this claim. Without supporting evidence, a claim of this magnitude has no weight 
and raises questions about the overall credibility of the letter in which it appeared. 
Another letter includes the claim that the Petitioner actuall~ developed I l but the writer of that 
letter, a vendor, claims no first-hand knowledge o~.._ __ __,'s discovery. The article co-authore~ by thl 
Petitioner indicates that some of the authors "screened our in-house chemical library and identifie 0" indicating the compound was already present but undiscovered. 
The record establishes the commercial availability 0~ I, but the record lacks objective, independent 
evidence that would establish the significance of the Petitioner's work with the compound relative to the 
field as a whole. Letters from individual researchers who use I I do not necessarily represent a 
consensus within the field. The Petitioner has established tha~ I is useful for certain applications, 
but usefulness is not synonymous with major significance. 
Citations: Published articles are a key avenue by which a researcher may disseminate original 
contributions. Not every such contribution, however, is of major significance in the field. It is the 
Petitioner's burden to establish the significance of his published work. 
The Petitioner documents citation of his published work, and asserts that these citations demonstrate 
its influence and significance. The Director acknowledged the citations but declined to consider them 
in the context of determining the significance of the Petitioner's contributions because "the regulations 
contain a separate criterion regarding the authorship of scholarly articles." We disagree with the 
Director's reasoning here, because the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) deals only with the 
Petitioner's authorship of scholarly articles; the sign[ficance of those articles is properly considered 
under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). Heavy citation of a particular article is one way to measure that article's 
impact and influence. 2 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADl 1-14 8 (Dec. 22, 2010), https://www. 
uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 
But it cannot suffice simply to show that citation has occurred. Rather, the Petitioner must establish that 
the citation rate of his published work is significantly high when compared with other published work in 
the same area. Here, the Petitioner has shown the number of citations his work has received, but he has 
not provided any basis for comparison with other work in the same area of research. 
The Petitioner has made original scientific contributions, but has not shown them to be of major 
significance in the field. 
Beyond the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), the Director concluded that the Petitioner has 
not shown that his entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States 
as required by section 203(b)(l)(A)(iii) of the Act. The Director must explain in writing the specific 
reasons for denial. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(i). Here, the Director simply stated: "it has not been 
established that the beneficiary's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States," 
without explaining the specific reasons for reaching that conclusion. If this issue were the only basis 
for denial of the petition, then the lack of an explanation would have raised significant issues. But the 
above discussion precludes approval of the petition and a detailed discussion of the prospective benefit 
issue cannot change the outcome of this appeal. 3 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has provided evidence of a productive career, and shown 
that some of his work is useful to others in his field. He has not, however, established a level of 
recognition of his work indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or 
demonstrating a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not 
otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The objective 
documentation in the record does not support the level of recognition and influence claimed in letters 
written specifically to support the petition, several of which show evidence of common authorship or 
at least reliance on a common template. The Petitioner's academic positions at, and since, the time of 
filing appear to amount to postdoctoral training, and do not reflect the demand for his services that 
one would expect from an acclaimed researcher at the top of the field. 
3 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
InRe: 13951115 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a computer software and hardware development business, seeks to classify the 
Beneficiary, a software development engineering manager, as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the 
Beneficiary satisfied at least three of the initial evidentiary criteria, as required, the Petitioner did not 
show the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrate that he is among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203 (b )( 1 )( A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that the Beneficiary has received a major, 
internationally recognized award, the Beneficiary must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that the Petitioner met four of the 
claimed evidentiary criteria relating to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), scholarly 
articles at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high 
salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
Although we do not concur with the Director's decision regarding the high salary criterion, the record 
reflects that the Beneficiary satisfies three of the evidentiary criteria. 1 As such, we will evaluate the 
totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination below. 2 
1 The Petitioner claimed the Beneficiary's eligibility for the high salary criterion based on his current salary as a software 
development engineering manager. However, the Petitioner compared the Beneficiary's salary to the salaries of non­
managerial software developers and did not establish that the Beneficiary commands a high salaiy in relation to other 
managerial software developers. Both precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See 
Matter of Price, 20 l&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th Cir. 2011) (finding 
salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others in the field); Grimson v. INS, 934 F. 
Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. 
Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) ( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
2 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the requisite initial evidence, we will evaluate whether the Petitioner has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, the Beneficiary's sustained national or 
international acclaim, 3 that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, 
and that his achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a 
final merits determination, we analyze a beneficiary's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the 
evidence to determine if his successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in 
the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also 
Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 4 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown the 
Beneficiary's eligibility. 
The record reflects that the Beneficiary received a bachelor of engineering from the University of I I in 2000 and a master of science froml I University in 2004. The Petitioner provided 
its original job offer letter showing the Beneficiary's starting position as an iOS location tech software 
engineer in January 2012 and another letter confirming the Beneficiary's promotion to a senior 
mana er in 2017. According to the Beneficiary's curriculum vitae, he has also been employed with 
as a senior engineer since August 2007. In addition, he worked as a software engineer 
at.__ __ ~---~---------' from 2004 -2007 and held research assistant positions while 
attending .__ ___ ,___,niversity from 2000 -2004. Besides the Beneficiary's authorship of a few 
papers over 15 years ago, the filing concentrates almost entirely on the Beneficiary's employment with 
the Petitioner for the past 6 years. The record, however, does not demonstrate that the Beneficiary 
enjoys a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-
723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As discussed further below, the Beneficiary made contributions while working for the Petitioner and 
simultaneously performed in a critical role. In describing and summarizing the Beneficiary's 
contributions and roles, I I senior director of sensitivity and connectivity for the 
Petitioner, stated: 
The Positioning team [ for the Petitioner] was already well aware of the challenges 
plaguing 9-1-1. Starting in 2014, [the Beneficiary] led the development and 
commercialization of [the Petitioner's] I I 
technology.I luses on-device algorithms and sensors to compute an emergency 
caller's location on the user's device more accurately, quickly, and reliably than 
traditional carrier-network-centric approaches. [The Beneficiary] also worked closely 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
3 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictionmy 's definition of"sustain" as to support or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an effort over a long period of time). 
4 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
3 
with the wireless carriers to demonstrate the superiority ofl I over the carriers' 
own solutions, and in 2015, a mere few months after the FCC's [Federal 
Communications Commission] order, launched I I in the United States .... 
Through 2016 and 2017, [the Beneficiar and his team were instrumental in enablin 
the successful launches ~o~f ====-.=======;- the first mass-market I II I and....._ ______ __,the first 
mass-market connect1v1ty. In addition to bringing the 
benefits of DI I, and to these products, [the Beneficiary] 
and his team also contributed to [the Petitioner's..______.feature, which allows callers to 
reach emergency services and share their location with public safety and designated 
emergency contacts, even when they are unable to physically dial an emergency 
number .... 
In 2018, [the Beneficiary's] team launched~-----------_, to bring 
the benefit of [the Petitioner's JI I technology to emergency callers in the United ~m, New Zealand, and 5 other European countries. Today,c=J is available on 
L___J andl I in over 16 countries and provides life-saving location data for 
over 200,000 calls daily. 
In that same year, [the Beneficiary's] team also developed! 0 , I I which uses a Next Generation 9-1-1 data pipeline froml l a New York 
startup, to make accurate I ldata available quickly and securely to the 9-1-1 center 
handling the call .... 
Also in 2018, [the Beneficiary] and his team worked closely witH LI land 
17teams at [the Petitioner to define thel I experience on thel I ~ When enabled, the can detect a "hard fall" and automatically call 
emergency services. Based on~------~ team's inputsJ I Watch is 
designed to play an automated "voice over" message informing the 9-1-1-
telecommuter of the nature of the call and the caller's precise location .... 
[The Beneficiar leveraged his deep knowledge of I l emergency 
services, and · · structure and protocols, to devise a novel mechanism to 
convey the precis _~-~ location from a user's device to the network even before an 
emergency call is connected. This technique, called~------------.,,..........-­
enables carrier networks to use the caller's exact location, instead of the remote location 
4 
of a connected cell-tower, to instantaneously route the call to the relevant 9-1-1 
center .... 
[The Beneficiary] has also tirelessly championed the use of precise! I location to 
route emergency text messages, often referred to as I I, to the 
appropriate 9-1-1 center. This capability is particularly relevant to the Accessibility 
community and to users who might be unable to verbally request assistance .... 
The record also includes recommendation letters from others echoing I ~ s praises of the 
Beneficiary's achievements for the Petitioner. For instance,! I director of regulatory 
engineering and technology devllopmenyorl I detailed that the Beneficiary "was critical in the 
development of [ the Petitioner's] technology," and "[ the Beneficiary] and his team were also 
able to dramatically reduce the typical response time for many emergency location sessions to under 
10 seconds." Further,! I director of technology and compliance for indicated ~e Beneficiary] led the team that worked closely withl b to prepare~----~ 
L___J which allows carrier networks to use the caller's exact location to determine the most relevant 
9-1-1 call center to route the user's voice call or text messa e to." In addition, ~------~ 
CEO for theL_ ______________ r----,..J stated that "[the Beneficiary] and his 
team worked with the national U.S. carriers to make~-~ available on [the Petitioner's] devices 
starting in 2015, and have since proven its ability to meet, and in some cases exceed, the 2021 
horizontal location requirements in independent industry tests." 
Although the letters praise the Beneficiary's recent work, the Petitioner did not establish how they 
demonstrate the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) 
of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The letters focus on the Beneficiary's immediate work without 
showing that the Beneficiary has enjoyed a career of acclaimed work in the field, placing him among 
that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record is void of the Beneficiary's professional accomplishments with any 
other employers even though his employment in the field spans approximately 20 years. The 
commentary for the proposed regulations implementing section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act provide that 
the "intent of Congress that a very high standard be set for aliens of extraordinary ability is reflected 
in this regulation by requiring the petitioner to present more extensive documentation than that 
required" for lesser classifications. 56 Fed. Reg. 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Likewise, the Petitioner also provided documentation showing: the Beneficiary and others listed as 
inventors on nine patents from 2016-2019, the Beneficiary's attendance at al[ ~ 
~ I Forum 2019, and a request for a presentation at the O • 
I.working Group Australia New Zealand in 2017. The Petitioner, however, did not 
demonstrate that the Beneficiary garnered significant or widespread attention from these events or 
explain how they reflect the Beneficiary's sustained national or international acclaim, indicating an 
individual in the upper echelon of his field. See section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. 
§§ 204.5(h)(2) and (3). The Petitioner, for example, did not compare the Beneficiary's patents to 
others in the field or show how attending a single forum or speaking at a solo working group 
establishes the recognition of the Beneficiary as among that small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
5 
Regarding his publication history, the Petitioner presented evidence showing that the Beneficiary 
authored five papers during his graduate work atl I University from 2003 -2004. However, 
the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's publication record of five articles over 15 
years ago is consistent with having a career of acclaimed work and sustaining national or international 
acclaim. 5 The Petitioner did not submit evidence showing the significance of the Beneficiary's 
authorships or how his overall publications compare to others who are viewed to be at the very top of 
the field. See H.R. Rep. No. at 59, section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act, and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
Without evidence that sets the Beneficiary apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has 
a consistent history of publishing articles in prestigious journals, the Petitioner has not shown that the 
Beneficiary's publications reflect being among the small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Moreover, the citation history or other evidence of the influence of the Beneficiary's written work can 
be an indicator to determine the impact and recognition that his publications have had on the field and 
whether such influence has been sustained. For example, numerous independent citations for an article 
authored by the Beneficiary may provide solid evidence that his work has been recognized over a 
period of time. Such an analysis at the final merits determination stage is appropriate pursuant to 
Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1122. The Petitioner submitted evidence indicating that others have cited to 
his articles 22 times. While the citation of the Beneficiary's written work shows that a few have 
noticed it, the Petitioner has not established that such citations are sufficient to demonstrate a level of 
interest in the field commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). In addition, the Petitioner has not demonstrated 
that the limited citations to the Beneficiary's work represent attention at a level consistent with being 
among that small percentage at the very top of his field. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. 
at 30704. 
Beyond the three criteria that the Beneficiary satisfied, we consider additional documentation in the 
record in order to determine whether the totality of the evidence demonstrates eligibility. For the 
reasons discussed below, the evidence does not establish that the Beneficiary has sustained national 
or international acclaim and is among the small percentage of the top of his field. 
The Petitioner indicated that the Beneficiary received! l's "President Award for Commitment to I !Industry" in 2019. Besides letters explaining wh~ I bestowed the award upon the 
Beneficiary, the Petitioner did not demonstrate the recognition or significance of the recent award on 
a national or international scale, contributing to the Beneficiary's sustained national or international 
acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Further, the Petitioner did 
not establish that the Beneficiary's immediate receipt of a single award reflects a career of acclaimed 
work in the field, placing him among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Finally, as previously indicated, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary commanded 
earnings commensurate with sustained national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of 
5 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (providing that publications should be evaluated to 
determine whether they were indicative of being one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of 
endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
6 
the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The Petitioner did not show that the Beneficiary's wages are 
tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). For example, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how the Beneficiary's 
salary compared to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention based 
on his earnings separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. In 
addition, the Petitioner did not document the Beneficiary's high earnings from other employers, 
showing a consistent history and recognition from the field of the Beneficiary's extraordinary ability. 
See 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Beneficiary's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for 
the Beneficiary, intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those 
progressing toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory 
standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. 
While the Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the 
classification sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that the Beneficiary has sustained 
national or international acclaim and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 
203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 13656450 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a singer, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The Director then reopened the proceeding twice -first on the Petitioner's motion, and later treating 
an untimely appeal as a motion to reopen under 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v)(B)(J). Both times, the 
Director again denied the petition. The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner asserts that she "has obtained the highest level of fame in her native I I and 
international recognition in pop singing." After performing on the televised Geostar competition 
program, the Petitioner worked as a "specialist" afl O Is Ministry of Culture; the record provides few 
details about this employment, which she mentioned in interviews in 2009 and 2014. The Petitioner also 
appeared in the film I but the record does not indicate that she has continued to pursue acting 
work. The Petitioner has spent an increasing amount of time in the United States since 2015. Her most 
recent entry was in 2017 as a B-2 nonimmigrant visitor for pleasure. She later changed status to an O-1B 
nonimmigrant with extraordinary ability in the arts, through! a petitiln filed b 
I IThroughl I the Petitioner operates a studio, where she provides voice lessons to 
children. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have satisfied seven of these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
• (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met two of the criteria, numbered (i) and (iv). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that she also meets the other claimed criteria. 
2 
Upon review, we conclude that the Petitioner has also submitted published material that satisfies 
criterion (iii). Because the Petitioner has met at least three of the regulatory criteria, we will not 
discuss the individual criteria in detail. Instead, we will evaluate all of the submitted evidence and 
determine whether she has demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, her sustained national 
or international acclaim and that she is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor, and that her achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive 
documentation. In a final merits determination, we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh 
the totality of the evidence to determine if their successes are sufficient to demonstrate that they have 
extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. 1 In this matter, we determine that the 
Petitioner has not established eligibility. 
The Director gave insufficient weight to some of the submitted evidence, such as media coverage. The 
Director acknowledged the Petitioner's submission of multiple interviews, but largely discounted that 
evidence because many of the interviews were not about the Petitioner's work in the field as required by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). This is a valid criticism, but looking at the brorer picture, thel I 
media's interest in the Petitioner's personal life is, itself: some indication of the public's interest 
in the Petitioner. 
Overall, the evidence is of mixed caliber. The record contains evidence of a high-profile career, including 
television appearances and significant awards. But there are also gaps in the evidence. The record 
contains occasional references to recordings by the Petitioner, but the record does not identify any 
released recordings or contain any evidence of their commercial release. The president of a recording 
studio praises the Petitioner as a popular entertainer, but does not say that the Petitioner has actually 
recorded at that studio. It is possible to achieve acclaim as a singer without releasing hit records, but the 
burden is on the Petitioner to show how she has done so. Likewise, the record contains copies of contracts 
that establish how much the Petitioner earned for specific projects, but the Petitioner has not submitted 
objective, documentary evidence to allow a meaningful comparison between her earnings and those of 
others in the field. 
The record indicates that the Petitioner had a successful career id I It does not, however, establish 
that she sustained a qualifying level of acclaim up to, and beyond, the time of filing. The Petitioner's 
initial filing included copies of 21 contracts dated between July 2010 and June 2016; the most recent 
contract was dated more than two years before the petition's filing date in July 2018. The Petitioner 
appeared onl l's version ofl lin 2016, but the record does not document any 
comparably high-profile activity since then. I I media continued to interview her after she 
relocated to the United States, but in those interviews, she discusses staying at home with a new child, 
teaching singing lessons, and singing at corporate events. 
In a translated September 2015 interview, conducted shortly after a two-month visit to the United States, 
the Petitioner stated: 'I I is too small, you can become popular with one clip and one song. In 
1 See also USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 
Petitions; Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda (stating that USCIS officers should then evaluate the evidence 
together when considering the petition in its entirety to determine if the petitioner has established, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, the required high level of expertise for the immigrant classification). 
3 
America everyone sings . . . . After [ a television appearance in I ~' when I was walking in the 
streets everyone asked me [for] autographs and it is not happening in [the] USA." This interview took 
place almost three years before the petition's filing date, and the record does not show that her career 
gained momentum afterward. In the same interview, the Petitioner stated that, in the United States, 
"[t]here are lots of singers who ha[ve] no job and it's difficult to find a job in a restaurant too." The 
Petitioner stated that she found work performing in I I lounges. Promotional fliers 
reproduced in the record corroborate this public statement, advertising her performances at small venues 
such as restaurants, coffee shops, and cultural centers. 
Consistent with the above quotation, the record does not show that the Petitioner has earned sustained 
national acclaim in the United States. Rather, her recognition in the United States appears to be largely 
confined to thd I community i~ I The Petitioner has not documented any U.S. media 
coverage apart from local, Russian-language media. One such article, from 2017, discussed the 
Petitioner's achievements between 2001 and 2015 and stated that "[h ]er dream is to conquer I I 
. . . . Meanwhile she shares her mastery withl I children, participates in charity concerts, and 
recently she performed at [a] I I festival." 
The record indicates that the Petitioner sang at the opening of a fashion show in I 11 I 
media reported that the Petitioner "performed atl J" but photographs from the 
event show the legend "Couture Fashion Week." The Petitioner has not established that the two names 
correspond to the same event, or that one is a part of the other. The Petitioner tol~ I interviewers 
that her performance generated "a huge response," but the record does not include any U.S. media 
coverage of the event. The Petitioner told an interviewer that she appeared because the art director for 
the event is froml I Other recent performances have been tied tol I cultural events. Some 
of these events have been at well-known locations, such as thel I D but the Petitioner has not shown that these appearances generated attention at a level consistent with 
national or international acclaim, or that her participation was highlighted either before or after the events. 
A printout from thd l's website discusses a performance by thd lbut the 
Petitioner's name does not appear in the article. Because these events took place in the United States, it 
is entirely appropriate to judge the events by the standards of the U.S. entertainment industry. 
In light of these facts, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner was at the very top of her field at the time 
of filing, and remains there now.2 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals currently at the 
top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top or who continue to 
command some degree of media attention on the strength of past achievements. U.S. Citizenship and 
Immigration Services has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not 
automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 
(Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not shown recognition of her work indicative of the 
2 A petitioner must meet all eligibility criteria at the time of filing, and must continue to meet them throughout the 
adjudication of the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(1 ). To this extent, it is appropriate to consider a petitioner's activities 
after the petition's filing date. Those activities, by themselves, cannot establish eligibility as of the filing date. but they 
directly bear on the question of whether a given petitioner continues to be eligible. 
4 
required sustained national or international acclaim, or which demonstrates a "career of acclaimed 
work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the 
Petitioner is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11198670 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a business development specialist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). 
This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that although the Petitioner 
satisfied four of the initial evidentiary criteria, the Petitioner did not establish his intent to continue to 
work in his area of extraordinary ability in the United States and that his entry would substantially 
benefit prospectively the United States. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually and 
within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact to be proven is probably 
true." Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates employment as vice president and general manager at ._I _____ ___.I and 
vice president atl I 
A. Background 
Because the Petitioner has not claimed or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Under his "Analysis of Criteria" in his decision, the Director determined 
that the Petitioner met four of the claimed evidentiary criteria relating to published material at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii), judging at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(viii), and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
While the Director briefly stated under his "Final Merits Determination" that "[t]he petitioner provided 
evidence to indicate the beneficiary's high-level experience withc=]and.__ ______ ___,..,' the 
record does not show that the Petitioner garnered sustained national or international acclaim and that 
his achievements have been recognized in the field of expertise through extensive documentation, 
demonstrating that he is one of that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field. 1 
Instead, the Director focused on the Petitioner's intent to continue to work in his area of expertise in 
the United States and whether he would substantially benefit prospectively the United States. In 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 13 (Dec. 22, 2010). 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html (providing that objectively meeting the regulatory 
criteria in part one alone does not establish that an individual meets the requirements for classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability under section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act). 
2 
addition, the Director did not explain how having "high-level experience" establishes sustained 
national or international acclaim and recognition of his achievements in the field, consistent with this 
highly restrictive classification. 
On appeal, we will evaluate the totality of the evidence in the context of the final merits determination 
below to decide whether the Petitioner demonstrated eligibility as an alien of extraordinary ability 
under section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act. If the Petitioner shows his extraordinary ability in business, 
then we will determine whether the Petitioner established that he will continue to work in his area of 
extraordinary ability in the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(ii) of the Act and whether he will 
substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(iii) of the Act. 
B. Final Merits Determination 
As the Petitioner submitted the reqms1te initial evidence, we will evaluate whether he has 
demonstrated, by a preponderance of the evidence, his sustained national or international acclaim, 2 
that he is one of the small percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor, and that his achievements 
have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation. In a final merits determination, 
we analyze a petitioner's accomplishments and weigh the totality of the evidence to determine if his 
successes are sufficient to demonstrate that he has extraordinary ability in the field of endeavor. See 
section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2), (3); see also Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. 3 In this matter, we determine that the Petitioner has not shown his eligibility. 
According to his initial cover letter, the Petitioner "holds a degree in Economy Management and a 
degree in Computer Application Software from the University I I' 
and "is a graduate ofl I their Advanced Management Program."4 In the past ~s, the Petitioner has been employed at various companies, such as I I 
L__J(senior consultant and consultant manager), I I 
~==-- (senior mana er, I l<director),LJ 
Lr---------------..,.._ ___ __,(associate partner artner and mana in artner 
( chief executive officer), 'i========.-----------' .-------'----------.----------~ resident and strate ic consultant (global vice president), 
L.---------------~-----r------'-'--'--"=.......,.==e=n-=-;t and managing partner), 
~-----7- _____ ___,(president)....,.,.,_ ___ ~--~- ....... (senior vice president), 
(vice president and general manager o service . s indicated above, the .__ _____ ___, 
Director determined that the Petitioner received some press coverage, participated as a judge, 
performed in leading roles, and earned a high salary. The record, however, does not demonstrate that 
2 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 14 (stating that such acclaim must be maintained and 
providing Black's Law Dictiona,y 's definition of"sustain" as to supp01t or maintain, especially over a long period of time, 
and to persist in making an eff01t over a long period of time). 
3 Id. at 4 (instructing that USCTS officers should then evaluate the evidence together when considering the petition in its 
entirety to determine if the petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence the required high level of expertise 
of the immigrant classification). 
4 The Petitioner did not provide evidence of his degrees to support his claims. 
5 See "Job History Summary" prepared by the Petitioner and a screenshot from bloomberg.com entitled, "Executive Profile 
& Biography." 
3 
his personal and professional achievements rise to a level of "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990). 
As it relates to media coverage, the Petitioner offered two items reflecting published material about 
him in 2011 and 2012. However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that such minimal press coverage, 
without any media reporting about him since 2012, is consistent with the sustained national or 
international acclaim necessary for this highly restrictive classification. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of 
the Act. Although he offered an additional six articles where he is mentioned as being one of the 
attendees at meetings, quoted on various business topics, and interviewed as a spokesperson of 
companies, the Petitioner did not show how his overall media coverage is indicative of a level of 
success with being among that small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. 
See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). Thus, the Petitioner did not establish that the limited media reporting of 
8 articles in a 15-year span reflects a career of acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to 
present more extensive documentation than that required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 
Fed. Reg. at 30703, 30704 (July 5, 1991). 
Regarding the Petitioner's service as a judge of the work of others, an evaluation of the significance 
of his experience is appropriate to determine if such evidence indicates the required extraordinary 
ability for this highly restrictive classification. See Kazarian, 596 F. 3d at 1121-22.6 The record 
reflects that the Petitioner participated as a judge for the 201 ] I Research 
Award and the 2018 I !Analysis Report. However, the Petitioner did 
not establish that these two occasions, seven years apart, contribute to a finding that he has a career of 
acclaimed work in the field or indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim. 
See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. He did not show, for example, 
how his experience judging these two contests compares to others at the very top of the field. The 
Petitioner did not establish that he garnered wide attention from the field based on his judging 
activities. While he provided some media accounts announcing the upcoming events, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate the prestigious nature of the occasions or that he garnered any acclaim from these 
judging instances. 
Serving as a member of a jury does not automatically demonstrate that an individual has extraordinary 
ability and sustained national or international acclaim at the very top of his field. Cf, Matter of Price, 
20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at 
the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard). Without 
evidence that sets him apart from others in his field, such as evidence that he has a consistent history 
of reviewing or judging recognized, acclaimed experts in his field, the Petitioner has not shown that 
his judging experience places him among that upper echelon of his field and that small percentage 
who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 
30704. 
6 See also USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 13 (stating that an individual's participation should be 
evaluated to determine whether it was indicative of being one of that small percentage who have risen to the very top of 
the field of endeavor and enjoying sustained national or international acclaim). 
4 
As it pertains to his roles, as mentioned above, the Petitioner served in various executive capacities 
for several companies for the past 25 years. However, the Petitioner presented documentation relating 
to his roles for only three businesses ~ .... ___ _.l I I andl O I The record 
lacks evidence documenting his professional career with the other companies, nor does it demonstrate 
whether his employment resulted in attention or recognition from the field, reflecting a career of 
acclaimed work in the field or a very high standard to present more extensive documentation than that 
required. See H.R. Rep. No. 101-723 at 59 and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
While he submitted job confirmation letters, none of them indicate any of the Petitioner's national or 
international acclaim based on his professional achievements at the companies. For instance,LJ I I former general manager atl I claimed that the Petitioner's role in "revenues 
and headcount ... was more widey recognized withinD' than by the overall field. FurtherJ I I I COO at I stated that the Petitioner "has valiantly led our team to victory 
surpassing our business target for 8 consecutive quarters" but did not explain how the greater field 
recognized his accomplishments. Similarly, the record reflects that the Petitioner provided evidence 
of his receipt of the "FYI 71 I Gold Club award" for "extraordinary performance, 
transformation and contributions toward achieving key company objectives"; however, the Petitioner 
did not show any acknowledgment of the award by the field outside of the company. In addition, I !chairman and CEO o~ l indicated that he "appreciated [the Petitioner's] 
selfless contribution to help our team in the transformation, win in the market strongly, and think 
differently about the competition and ways of success" without demonstrating how the Petitioner's 
personal and professional traits resulted in broad national or international attention. 
The letters do not discuss whether any of the Petitioner's professional achievements at the businesses 
garnered him national or international acclaim. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Further, the 
letters do not show the Petitioner's recognition on a national or international scale, consistent with 
being among that small percentage at the very top of the field. See 8 C.F.R.§ 204.5(h)(2). Here, the 
Petitioner did not establish how his roles resulted in widespread acclaim from his field, that he drew 
significant attention from the greater field, or that overall field considers him to be at the very top of 
the field of endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) and 56 Fed. Reg. at 30704. 
Finally, although he documented his income froml l I land._! ____ __., 
the Petitioner did not establish that he commanded earnings commensurate with sustained national or 
international acclaim. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. The Petitioner did not show that his wages 
are tantamount to an individual who is among that small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). He did not demonstrate, for example, how his salary compared 
to others at the very top of his field, or that he received notoriety or attention based on his earnings 
separating himself from others in the field or placing him in the upper echelon. 
The record as a whole, including the evidence discussed above, does not establish the Petitioner's 
eligibility for the benefit sought. Here, the Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, 
intended for individuals already at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing 
toward the top. Even major league level athletes do not automatically meet the statutory standards for 
classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability." Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. While the 
Petitioner need not establish that there is no one more accomplished to qualify for the classification 
sought, the record is insufficient to demonstrate that he has sustained national or international acclaim 
5 
and is among the small percentage at the top of his field. See section 203(b)(l)(A)(i) of the Act and 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
III. CONCLUSION 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. 7 The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 As the Petitioner has not established his extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )(A)(i) of the Act, we need not 
consider whether he will continue to work in his area of extraordinary ability under section 203(b )(1 )( A )(ii) of the Act and 
whether his entrance will substantially benefit prospectively the United States under section 203(b )(1 )(A )(iii) of the Act. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal 
agencies are not generally required to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter 
ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516. n.7 (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11876135 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a racehorse jockey, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner states that he "is thd I in the history of Venezuelan horse riding to reacrl._ ___ _. 
.__ __ ___.I" An online article in the record indicates that the Petitioner "won approximately 2,200 races" 
before relocating to the United States. The Petitioner states that he "was among the contenders to ride I l .. at the 20151 I." At the time of filing in December 2016, the Petitioner 
was riding in California, primarily atl O I He then briefly worked in New 
Mexico and then Minnesota. When he filed the appeal in 2020, he worked atl I in I I Florida. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have met six criteria, summarized below: 
I (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
I (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
I (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
I (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
I (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; and 
I (ix), High remuneration for services. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met the two criteria numbered (vii) and (ix). On appeal, 
the Petitioner asserts that he also meets the other claimed evidentiary criteria. 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we conclude that the Petitioner has satisfied only the 
criterion relating to salary or other remuneration. We will address the other criteria below. 
Throughout this proceeding, the Petitioner has not specifically explained how he purports to have 
satisfied the various evidentiary criteria. Instead, the Petitioner identifies each criterion and lists the 
evidentiary exhibits which, he asserts, relate to that criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner quotes at some 
2 
length from the Director's decision, but instead of addressing that determination directly, the Petitioner 
simply identifies evidentiary exhibits. The relationship between those exhibits and the claimed criteria 
is more straightforward in some instances than in others. It is the Petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. Section 291 of the Act; Matter of Skirball Cultural Ctr., 
25 l&N Dec. 799, 806 (AAO 2012). The Petitioner cannot meet his burden of proof simply by listing 
record materials without explaining their relevance. 
Furthermore, the appeal includes information and evidence about the Petitioner's activities after he 
filed the petition in December 2016. We will not discuss this evidence in any detail as the Petitioner 
must meet all eligibility requirements at the time of filing the petition. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(1).1 
Subsequent developments cannot retroactively establish eligibility. See Matter of Katigbak, 14 l&N 
Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'I Comm'r 1971). Furthermore, the purpose of an appeal is to establish errors of fact 
or law in the underlying decision. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). Submission of entirely new claims 
and evidence on appeal does not show that the Director made an incorrect decision based on the 
evidence available to the Director at the time of that decision. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
As of September 2016, the Petitioner was thel l"Meet Leader" at~-------~ 
having wonl I races. The table of "Meet Leaders," ranking jockeys in order of number of 
races won, lists 57 jockeys, 45 of whom had won at least one race. The table also appears to indicate that 
349 races took place at that one racetrack up to that point in the 2016 season. 
Other materials in the record list every race in which the Petitioner has participated, and indicate where 
he finished in each race, but the Petitioner has not shown that he won nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards in these races. Given the hundreds of races per year at each of countless 
racetracks, there is no presumption that the winner of any given race wins a nationally or internationally 
recognized prize or award. 
The Petitioner has not established that he received nationally or internationally recognized prizes or 
awards for excellence in his field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner submits a photocopy of his jockey license, issued by the California Horse Racing Board, 
and various information about his riding career. This evidence shows that the Petitioner has a jockey 
license, but it does not establish that he is a member of any identified association. The California Horse 
1 The same regulation requires each petitioner to remain eligible for the benefit sought throughout the adjudication of the 
petition. In this respect, it is relevant that a 2020 printout of the Petitioner's statistics shows a significant decline in the 
Petitioner's annual winnings after 2016. 
3 
Racing Board is a government licensing authority, not an association of jockeys, and even then the 
Petitioner has not established that the Board requires outstanding achievement as a condition for Ii censure. 
On appeal, the Petitioner presents new information about his licensure in other states and his membership 
in the Jockeys' Guild, which he did not previously claim. The Guild's attorney states in a letter that the 
Petitioner has been a member since 2014, but the Petitioner did not claim Guild membership prior to the 
appeal. Therefore, the Director cannot have erred by failing to consider that membership. Furthermore, 
the attorney does not specify the Guild's membership requirements. The record describes the Guild as, 
essentially, a trade union that advocates for the interests of jockeys, rather than an association with highly 
restrictive membership requirements. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner submits several articles from various publications, but many of these articles are not about 
him; they mention him briefly, or not at all, and the Petitioner does not show that they appeared in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. Other articles, submitted later, were 
published after the 2016 filing date and therefore cannot show eligibility at the time of filing. 
The initial submission includes two articles about the Petitioner: A 12016 piece on the website of I I Park called the Petitioner "an overnight sensation" who ~----~-----.---. 
and a 2016 article from the Paulick Re art statin that the Petitioner 
~-~I· The Petitioner has not established that either of these stories appeared in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 
The Petitioner submits photographs showing him racing horses, speaking to a television reporter, and 
posing with journalists and others. The photographs have unattributed captions, but the Petitioner does 
not show where the photographs were pub I ished, or whether the captions were pub I ished along with them. 
One photograph shows a copyright notice from Newsday inl I but a copyright notice 
is not evidence of publication. The record also does not provide further information about the broadcast, 
if any, of the Petitioner's interview with the aforementioned television reporter. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a Paulick Report article from 2015. He does not explain why he did 
not submit the article earlier, nor does he establish that the Paulick Report constitutes a professional or 
major trade publication or other major media. 
The Petitioner has not shown that the submitted evidence satisfies the regulatory criterion. 
Evidence of the display of the alien's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) 
4 
The Director concluded, without comment, that the Petitioner satisfied this criterion. We disagree. 
In claiming to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner cited various exhibits without further elaboration or 
explanation. Some of the cited documents are website printouts of the Petitioner's "Jockey Profile" and 
a table of "2016 Meet Leaders" at thel !racetrack. These pages are informational listings of 
statistics rather than artistic displays or exhibitions. 
The other specified exhibits are photographs of the Petitioner, taken after (and in some cases during) horse 
races. A photograph is not inherently an artistic display or exhibition. Some of the photographs appear 
to have been taken by news photographers, for informational rather than artistic purposes. 
The exhibits all establish that the Petitioner has participated in horse races, but the Petitioner has not 
established that a horse race is an artistic display or exhibition. 
In the absence of any explanation as to how the specified exhibits constitute evidence of the display of 
the Petitioner's work at artistic exhibitions or showcases, we cannot conclude that the Petitioner has 
satisfied the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner points to 21 exhibits in the record, submitted at various times during the proceeding, but 
does not explain how those materials satisfy the criterion. The Petitioner does not identify the 
organizations or establishments; demonstrate that they have distinguished reputations; or specify how his 
role for each was either leading or critical. 
The Petitioner cannot meet his burden of proof merely by submitting a number of documents and 
asserting, without explanation, that they establish a leading or critical role for unidentified organizations 
and establishments. It is not the Director's responsibility to fill in gaps in the record, for instance by 
inferring that the Petitioner must have performed in a critical role for a particular racetrack complex by 
winning a number of races there. 
The Petitioner has not established that he satisfies the regulatory requirements for this criterion. 
111. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
5 
has not shown that he has earned the required sustained national or international acclaim or that his 
achievements are consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is one of the small 
percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act 
and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has had some success as a jockey, but does not show that he has achieved sustained national 
or international acclaim, or that he has reached the top of his field. For example, he was the[] "Meet 
Leader" for races held arl O l in 2016, but he does not explain how this statistic 
is relevant at the wider national or international level. The Petitioner asserts that he had earned acclaim 
during his earlier career in Venezuela, but he submits no contemporaneous, documentary evidence to 
support this assertion. Some articles mention the Petitioner's earlier work in Venezuela, and letters from 
individuals who worked with him in Venezuela describe his skill in general terms, but the direct evidence 
all relates to his work in the United States. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11244063 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner , a biopharmaceutical manufacturer , seeks to classify the Beneficiary as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Beneficiary had 
satisfied only two of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate recognition 
of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationa lly 
recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCJS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner indicates that it has employed the Beneficiary "as a Senior SAP [ systems, applications, 
and products] Planning Specialist" since 2018. 1 Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established 
that the Beneficiary has received a major, internationally recognized award at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), 
he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
In denying the petition, the Director determined that the Beneficiary satisfied only two criteria, leading 
or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) and high salary at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). However, 
for the reasons discussed later, we do not agree with the Director that the Beneficiary fulfilled the high 
salary criterion. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains the Beneficiary's eligibility for four additional 
criteria. After reviewing all of the evidence, the record does not reflect that the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements of at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor . 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the petitioner must demonstrate that the alien received prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 2 The 
Petitioner references a letter from I I general manager at I I 
....._ _____________ , who stated: 
With the contribution of his efforts, the I l received national level highest 
fuel efficiency award from ASRTU (Member of International Association APTA­
American Public Transport Association). Furthermore, [the Beneficiary] received the 
highest kilometer per litre in fuel efficiency achievement award from the Transport 
1 See Petitioner's initial cover letter. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJJ-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https :/ /www.uscis .gov/policymanual/HTML/Policy Manual.html. 
2 
Minister (US Secretary equivalent at the state level) at the Government of~I ---~ 
[The Beneficiary] also received a national level high mileage award for excellent 
maintenance and operation of vehicles by I L an 
international corporation acclaimed as one of the largest vehicle manufacturers in the 
world. 
The record contains "About us" screenshots from I including a section entitled, 'The Details 
of AW ARDS Received by this Corporation are Given Below," listing awards received byl I 
from "ASRTU" during 1991-2015. The screenshots, however, do not credit or mention the 
Beneficiary receiving any awards, as claimed byl I The evidence submitted by the 
Petitioner does not show that the Beneficiary received the "national level highest foel efficiency award 
from ASR TU" or the "the highest kilometer per litre in fuel efficiency achievement award from the 
Transport Minister." In fact, as indicated, it appears thaU !received various vehicle performance 
awards rather than the Beneficiary. The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides 
that the focus should be on the alien's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to his or her employer's 
receipt of the awards or prizes. 3 Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any corroborating evidence 
from "ASRTU" or "Transport Minister" evidencing the Beneficiary's receipt. Furthermore, the 
Petitioner did not demonstrate how the I I screenshots establish the national or international 
recognition for excellence in the field for either of these awards. Here, the Petitioner did not establish 
the national or international significance of the awards in the field. 
In addition, the record contains an ALL "High Mileage A ward" certificate "for excellent maintenance 
and operation of [ALL] vehicle" awarded to the Beneficiary. Further, the record reflects screenshots 
from I I entitled, "Latest [ALL] News," highlighting various news events of the 
company. Although the certificate indicates that the Beneficiary received the award, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate the national or international recognition of the award for excellence in the field. 
The Petitioner did not establish how the screenshots, which make no mention of the "High Mileage 
Award," shows that it is nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field consistent 
with this regulatory criterion. Moreover, the Petitioner did not provide any independent, objective 
evidence showing the significance of the award in the field beyond ALL. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this 
criterion. 
Documentation of the alien 's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner argues eligibility this criterion based on the Beneficiary's membership with the 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). In order to satisfy this criterion, the petitioner 
must show that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
3 
international experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is 
sought.4 
The Petitioner submitted screenshots from asme.org indicating promotional material for ASME. 
Further, the Petitioner presented ASME's "Constitution and By-Laws," showing various degrees of 
membership, such as corporate membership, honorary member, fellow, member, affiliate, and student 
member. Associations may have multiple levels of membership, and the level of membership afforded 
to the alien must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, the alien was judged by 
recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding achievements in the field 
for which classification is sought. 5 The record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a certificate 
reflecting the Beneficiary's "Member" status with ASME. According to the bylaws, "[a] member, at 
the time of admission or advancement to that grade, shall have attainments amounting to the equivalent 
of at least eight years of engineering experience." However, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that 
attaining a certain level of experience is tantamount to outstanding achievements as required by this 
regulatory criterion. Relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that the alien's membership in the 
associations was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, 
instances where the alien's membership was based solely on a level of education or years of experience 
in a particular field. 6 Here, the Petitioner did not establish that ASME' s member requirement of 
professional experience rises to the level of outstanding achievements consistent with this regulatory 
criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that recognized national or international experts judge 
outstanding achievements, as applicants are eligible for membership as long as they meet the minimum 
requirements of experience. Moreover, although the bylaws state that "[a]ll procedures relating to 
admissions to and promotions in membership ... shall be administered by the Membership staff in 
accordance with the policy set by the Board of Governors," the Petitioner did not establish that the 
"Membership staff' is comprised of recognized national or international experts. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary fulfills this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the 
work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is 
sought. 8 C.F.R. 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
The Petitioner contends that the Beneficiary meets this regulatory criterion because: 
[The Beneficiary] participated in the.__ _________ ___. Forum-knowledge 
session on SAP~ I is a publically [sic] traded multinational organization with 
distinguished reputation in the field. [The Beneficiary] is regularly responsible for 
reviewing and assessing the work of others. He reviewed and assessed SAP PM 
4 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Academy of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). 
5 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
6 Id. 
4 
Interface framework to deliver enterprise information and Business Process 
Configuration manual. 
The record contains a "Certificate of Participation" from I I indicating that the Beneficiary 
"has participated in the 20061 f Forum-knowledge sessions on SAP." In 
addition, the Petitioner provided screenshots regarding "SAP Application Interface Framework" and 
a "User Manual for SAP Returns and Repair Process Using Return Material Authorization (RMA)." 
This regulatory criterion requires the petitioner to show that alien has not only been invited to judge 
the work of others, but also that he actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the 
same of allied field of specialization. 7 The Petitioner, however, did not demonstrate how the evidence 
shows that the Beneficiary participated as a judge of the work of others. The certificate only indicates 
that the Beneficiary participated in a forum without any indication of judging experience. Moreover, 
the screenshots and user manual do not make any mention of the Beneficiary's involvement in judging 
the work of others, as required by this regulatory criterion. Here, the presented evidence does not 
support the Petitioner's assertions relating to the Beneficiary's judging experience with SAP materials, 
nor did the Petitioner establish that the Beneficiary's "review[ing] and assess[ing]" involved judging 
the work of others consistent with this regulatory criterion. 
In addition, the Petitioner cites to a portion ofletter from one of its managers,! who stated: .__ _______ ___, 
During [ the Beneficiary's] time at I the company acquired several large 
companies further expanding its worldwide presence. [The Beneficiary] in 2005, 
started implementing SAP solution for entire organizations across 14 countries. Since 
then he has been leading and engaged in various initiatives similar to that used [by the 
Petitioner]. 
The Petitioner, however, did not explain how the letter shows the Beneficiary's participation of the 
work of others. Moreover, the Petitioner did not demonstrate how implementing a solution, 
framework, or procedure for an organization involves judging the work of others. Here, the Petitioner 
did not establish that the Beneficiary served, either individually or on a panel, as a judge. 
Accordingly, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
In order to meet this criterion, a petitioner must demonstrate that the alien's salary or remuneration is 
high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. 8 Because the record does not 
reflect that the Petitioner established the Beneficiary's eligibility under the regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix), we will withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
7 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 8. 
8 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005.1, supra, at 11. 
5 
At initial filing, the Petitioner claimed: 
As one of the leading experts in Business Operations Plant Maintenance, [the 
Beneficiary] has commanded a high salary for his extraordinary expertise and leading 
role. For the fiscal year of 2018, [the Beneficiary] earned around $81,494.40. In 2019, 
[the Beneficiary] anticipates earning over $81,494.40 in salaries and bonus. [The 
Beneficiary'] significantly high remuneration for his services, in relation to others in 
the field farther confirms his extraordinary ability and level of expertise in the field. 
However, the Petitioner did not provide any evidence of the Beneficiary's earnings in 2018, to support 
its assertions. Instead, the record reflects that the Petitioner submitted a copy of the Beneficiary's 
2017 IRS Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, issued by a previous employer,! I I I in I I Illinois and screenshots from careeronestop.org for "Wages for 
Installation, Maintenance, and Repair Workers, All Other inr-===J TX." The Petitioner, however, 
did not identify the Beneficiary's position that he performed ~in 201 7. As such, the Petitioner 
did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services in relation to others in the Beneficiary's field. 
In fact, the record reflects thatl I filed a petition for the Beneficiary seeking to employ the 
Beneficiary as an "SAP Consultant."9 Thus, the Petitioner compares the Beneficiary's salary as an 
SAP consultant to that of salaries of installation, maintenance, and repair workers. The Petitioner did 
not establish that the Beneficiary commanded a high salary in relation to other SAP consultants. Both 
precedent and case law support this application of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). See Matter of Price, 20 
I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (considering a professional golfer's earnings versus other 
PGA Tour golfers); see also Skokos v. US. Dept. of Homeland Sec., 420 F. App'x 712, 713-14 (9th 
Cir. 2011) (finding salary information for those performing lesser duties is not a comparison to others 
in the field); Crimson v. INS, 934 F. Supp. 965, 968 (N.D. Ill. 1996) (considering NHL enforcer's 
salary versus other NHL enforcers); Muni v. INS, 891 F. Supp. 440, 444-45 (N. D. Ill. 1995) 
( comparing salary of NHL defensive player to salary of other NHL defensemen). We note that in 
response to the Director's request for evidence, the Petitioner provided a copy of the Beneficiary's 
IRS Form W-2. However, the Petitioner did not offer evidence demonstrating that the Beneficiary 
commands a high salary in relation to other senior SAP specialists. 
For these reasons discussed above, the Petitioner did not establish that the Beneficiary fulfills this 
criterion, and we withdraw the Director's decision for this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner did not demonstrate that the Beneficiary satisfies the criteria relating to awards, 
memberships, judging, and high salary. Although the Petitioner claims the Beneficiary's eligibility 
for an additional criterion on appeal, relating to original contributions at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we 
need not reach this additional ground. As the Beneficiary cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary 
9 See._l _____ _,I filed on March 26, 2014. 
6 
requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue.10 Accordingly, we 
need not provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F .3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the Beneficiary's acclaim and recognition 
required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification for the Beneficiary, intended for individuals 
already at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the 
top. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically 
meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Price, 20 I&N Dec. at 954. Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of the Beneficiary's work is indicative of the required sustained national 
or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section203(b)(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Beneficiary has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
Although the Beneficiary has SAP experience, the record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated the Beneficiary's eligibility as 
an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with 
each considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
10 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 11877771 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 26, 2021 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a journalist, seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner had satisfied at least three of ten initial evidentiary criteria, as required. 
The matter is now before us on appeal. 
In these proceedings , it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to aliens with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation , 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2) . The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate 
international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that 
is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then 
he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria 
listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain 
media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner has served as a sub-editor atl I which owns several 
publications in Nepal, includingDI I a U.S.-based Nepali-language news website, 
has offered the Petitioner a position as a consulting editor. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown that she received a major, internationally recognized 
award, she must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x). The Petitioner initially claimed to have met all ten criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), Lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards; 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iii), Published material about the alien in professional or major media; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• (vii), Display at artistic exhibitions or showcases; 
• (viii), Leading or critical role for distinguished organizations or establishments; 
• (ix), High remuneration for services; and 
• (x), Commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner met only the fourth criterion, relating to participation as a 
judge of the work of others. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she also meets eight other evidentiary 
criteria. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's conclusions regarding the seventh criterion, 
pertaining to artistic display, and therefore we consider that issue to be abandoned. 1 
1 See Matter of R-A-M-, 25 T&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision, that issue is waived). See also Sepulveda v. U.S. Att:v Gen., 401 F.3d 1226, 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005), citing United States v. Cunningham, 161 F.3d 1343, 1344 (11th Cir. 1998); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-
CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *1, *9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (plaintiffs claims were abandoned as he failed to 
raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
We have reviewed all of the evidence in the record and conclude that it does not show that the 
Petitioner satisfies the requirements of at least three criteria. We agree with the Director that the 
Petitioner has participated as a judge of the work of others. Below, we will discuss the other eight 
criteria that the Petitioner claims on appeal. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the.field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Petitioner discusses two claimed awards on appeal. The record directly documents only one of them. 
A certificate froml I shows that the Petitioner won an I I Award u 
. . . for Outstanding Performance in a field of Journalism 2014-15." An official from the awarding 
organization stated that a three-member committee chose the Petitioner "for her outstanding contribution 
through journalism in I I." This statement describes how the Petitioner received the award, 
but it does not show that the award is nationally or internationally recognized. 
The record also indicates that the Nepal Press Union (NPU) gave the Petitioner a.__ _______ ___. 
in 2015. The Petitioner does not include a copy of the letter itself Instead, the Petitioner submits a March 
2016 letter from the NPU' s coordinator, 2 stating: 
.__ ________ ~ is the recognition ... established to honor the excellence and 
outstanding contribution of a journalist in the field of journalism. It was awarded to [the 
Petitioner] ... in the year of 2015. She was selected by an independent sub committee 
led by renowned person[ s] from [the] field of journalism. The reason behind her selection 
is her immense contribution [to the] I ~ journalism as a whole. 
Other NPU officials provided subsequent letters, dated 2019. The general secretary of the NPU states: 
"In recognition of her outstanding journalism, Nepal Press Union had awarded [the Petitioner] with the I I in 2015, which is an award handed over to one journalist annually." The president of the 
NPU states that the organization honored the Petitioner as anl t' in 2015, based on 
"her immense contribution to the field of Nepalese journalism, her vision, and her innovative work on 
establishing! I online portal." The record does not contain sufficient evidence to establish that the 
letter of appreciation is a nationally or internationally recognized prize or award for excellence in the field 
of journalism. 
Considering that the Petitioner claims to have received journalism awards from journalists, it bears noting 
that the Petitioner does not show that any of her claimed awards received any media coverage at the time 
she received them. This is directly relevant to the question of how widely recognized the awards are. 
The Petitioner has not established her receipt of nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards 
for excellence in her field of endeavor. 
Documentation of the alien's membership in associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
2 The coordinator has the same surname as the Petitioner. The record does not say whether the two are related. 
3 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii) 
The Petitioner is a member of Sancharika Samuha, described as "a Forum of women communicators," 
and the Federation of Nepali Journalists (FNJ). The record does not establish that either organization 
requires outstanding achievements of its members. The president of the FNJ states that the organization 
"is a professional representative body" with "more than 10,000" members, and the record indicates that 
the FNJ is a trade union rather than an exclusive organization with restrictive membership requirements. 
The Petitioner has not shown that she is a member of any organization or establishment that requires 
outstanding achievements of its members. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other 
major media, relating to the alien 's work in the field for which classification is sought. 
Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary 
translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Petitioner initially submitted what she called "articles primarily about [her] work." The Petitioner 
was the author or editor of these articles, but not their subject. Such articles are not about the Petitioner, 
relating to her work. Rather, they are products of the Petitioner's work as a journalist. 
The Petitioner's response to a request for evidence includes several articles about her. Some were 
published after the petition's filing date. These materials cannot establish that the Petitioner met the 
eligibility requirements at the time of filing, as required by 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l), and therefore we need 
not discuss further details of these articles. 
The remaining articles ( one from I I and one from I , b do not include the authors' 
names as the regulation requires. The Director stated that they also lacked certified translations, but the 
translator's certification is in the record. 
Of greater concern, the Petitioner does not establish thatl I and I I are professional 
or major trade publications or other major media. A letter from an official of the Press Council Nepal 
states thatl I circulates over 30,000 copies per month, but firovides no context (and cites no 
source) for this figure. The same official states thatl _ is a "credible online news outlet," 
which does not suffice to meet the regulatory standards. 
The Petitioner has not satisfied this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or 
major trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi) 
The Petitioner submits copies of articles that she wrote or edited, but the submitted articles are not 
scholarly. A scholarly article should be written for learned persons in a given field. ("Learned" is 
4 
defined as "having or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship.")3 The Petitioner's articles 
are for a general readership, regarding such topics as a preview of a science fiction film; dressing for cold 
weather; and profiles of women employed in various fields. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role/or organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
The Petitioner establishes the distinguished reputation of~-------~ but has not shown that 
her role with that publisher is leading or critical. If a leading role, the evidence must establish that the 
alien is ( or was) a leader. If a critical role, the evidence must establish that the alien has contributed 
in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's 
activities. 4 
An assistant general manager at describes the Petitioner's work there: ~---------' 
As a sub-editor, she was responsible for identifying interesting stories, interview 
subjects, collecting data/information and editin . She wrote educational informative 
and entertainin articles 
Through the focus on 
substantive matters, [the Petitioner] was able to able to spread awareness among Nepali 
audience [sic] on these issues. Her lea1ershifi, vision and her focus on creating 
interesting and substantive content helped become the largest selling I I 
magazine in Nepal. ... 
She also came up with creative ideas on supplement issues ofc=J that were immensely 
liked by business outlets and was able to generate significant revenue forl I 
I I 
The editor of~states: 
[The Petitioner] has played an instrumental role in defining, developing and establishing 
I I stronghold a~ong r~aders in and outside Nepal .... [The Petitioner] has been a 
strong pillar in makin he household name it is today . . . . The supplement o±c=J 
is an example of successful planning and implementation which was both content wise 
and commer~ially I successful . . . . She pushed the management towards effective 
digitization o in a country where internet was not yet so widespread. 
These officials credit the Petitioner with contributing to~'s popularity, but do not provide enough 
information to show that the Petitioner's work, in particular, had a significant effect on the magazine's 
success. The Petitioner has not shown how many reporters and sub-editorsc=J employs at any one time, 
or provided an objective basis for comparing the Petitioner's role to that of others at the publication. Also, 
3 USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 9 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https ://www.uscis.gov/legal-resources/policy-memoranda. 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
5 
the Petitioner has provided few details about the nature of her work as a sub-editor. Without that 
information, we cannot conclude that she has shown her role to be leading or critical. 
The Petitioner has not established that she satisfies the requirements of this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix) 
The Petitioner submits two similarly-worded letters signed by other journalists. One letter calls the 
Petitioner "one of the highest paid female journalists in Nepal"; the other uses nearly the same phrase, 
substituting "women" for "female." The letters include no figures or other elaboration. The letters have 
oTer similarities: wejj· foI example, both state that the Petitioner "has proven to be an enormous asset 
to.__ ____ ~~--_, magazine of Nepal." The use of nearly identical language strongly suggests 
a common author, whom we can infer to be the Petitioner herself 5 
Nepal's Minimum Wage Fixation Committee "has fixed minimum remuneration for Nepalijournalist[s] 
at Nrs. 19,200 per month." A letter from that committee states: "Records show that the monthly 
remuneration received by [the Petitioner] as a sub-editor ofc=J and as media adviser/consultant for 
various organizations was over NRS 170,000 in the fiscal year 2015-2016, which is over 8 times the 
minimum salary of a journalist ... and over 4 times ... the average income [ o ]f senior journalists." 
The figure provided for the Petitioner, however, is not the salary of a journalist. Rather, it is the combined 
total of salaries from several employers and clients. Letters in the record indicate that various schools 
and child care facilities each paid the Beneficiary between 40,000 and 55,000 Nepalese rupees per month. 
Most of those letters do not specify the Petitioner's duties as a "media consultant"; one employer indicated 
that the Petitioner's duties included marketing and promotion. 
The record does not show what salary lpays to the Petitioner as a journalist and sub­
editor, but it is evident that the bulk of the Petitioner's monthly income has come from schools rather than 
publishers. 
Because the Petitioner has not shown what she earns for her work as a journalist, she has not shown that 
she has commanded a high salary in relation to others in the field of journalism. 
Evidence of commercial successes in the peiforming arts, as shown by box office receipts 
or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x) 
The Petitioner asserts that, because she has established a high salary under the previous criterion, she has 
also shown that she satisfies this criterion. This assertion is deficient for several reasons. First, as 
discussed above, she has not established her level of compensation as a journalist; most of her income 
derives from promotional work for employers or clients who are not publishers. 
5 Cf Mei Chai Ye v. U.S. Dept. of Justice, 489 F.3d 517,519 (2d Cir. 2007) (an immigration judge may reasonably infer 
that when an asylum applicant submits strikingly similar affidavits, the applicant is the common source). 
G 
Second, the language of this criterion refers specifically to commercial success in the performing arts. 
The Petitioner does not claim or establish that the performing arts include journalism. 
Finally, commercial success is not synonymous with high salary. If it were, then there would be no 
reason for two separate regulatory criteria. The commercial success of a given film, recording, or 
performance is separate from the payment received by any one individual participant. 
The Petitioner is not employed in the performing arts and has not submitted box office receipts or sales 
figures to establish commercial success in the performing arts. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions o_f major significance in the_field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In light of the above conclusions, the Petitioner does not meet the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). Detailed discussion of this remaining criterion cannot 
change the outcome of this appeal. Therefore, we reserve this issue. 6 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a conclusion 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. Here, the Petitioner 
has established that she works for a large and successful publication and has earned some degree of 
recognition for that work. But she has not shown that this recognition rises to the required level of 
sustained national or international acclaim, or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in 
the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated her eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, 526 
n. 7 (BIA 2015) ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
7 U.S. Citizenship _· 
and lmmi,gration 
Services 
MATTER OF F-F-D-S-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 27, 2019 
PETITION: FORM I-140, IMMIGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
The Petitioner, a jiu-jitsu coach, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § l l 53(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification ·makes immigrant visas available to those who. can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or· international acclaim and whose achievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. · 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the Forni 1-140, Immigrant Petition. for Alien 
Worker, concluding that the Petitioner had satisfied ·only one of the ten initial evidentiary criteria, of 
which he must mee\ at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner submits a brief and additional evidence and asserts that he meets at least 
three of the ten criteria. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated · by sustained national or international 
acclaim ·and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work m the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantiafly benefit prospectively the 
United States. I . . 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence 
requirements. First, a petitioner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, 
internationally ~ecognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
must provide documentation that meets at least three of the ten categories listed at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)"""""' (x) (including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and 
scholarly articles). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(4) allows a petitioner to submit comparable 
material if he or she is able to demonstrate that the standards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) do not 
readily apply to the individual's occupation. 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record· shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
(discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 20~3); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the "truth is to be 
----determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," ·as well as the principle that we 
examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility, both individually 
and within the context of the totality of the evidence , to determine whether the fact to be proven is 
. probably true." Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 376 (AAO 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized. award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R . 
. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). In denying the petition, the Director found that the Petitioner met only one of 
the initial evidentiary criteria. 
On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he satisfies six of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) directly "or with comparable evidence now introduced." For the reasons 
q.iscussed below, we find that he has not satisfied the initial evidentiary requirements. 
A. Regulatory Criteria 
Documentation of the. alien ·s membership in associations in the field for which 
class(fication is sought. which require outstanding achievements o_f'their members. as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or.fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). . 
As evidence that he meets this criterion, the Petitioner refers to a statement from 
, president of the an article from 
Wikipedia titled and a letter from 
a sports business executive and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Black Belt.1 
. ' 
1 The Petitioner alternately indicates that the submitted documentation constitutes "comparable " evidence relating to this 
2 
.
Maller of F-F-D-S-
In order to satisfy this criterion, the Petitioner must show that he is a member of an association, and 
that membership in the association is based on being judged by recognized national or international 
experts as having outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.2 Although 
the materials demonstrate the Petitioner's affi I iation with the record lacks evidence 
demonstrating membership requirements for this association to show that, it requires outstanding 
achievements , as judged by recognized national or international experts. While we also note that the 
Petitioner received a black belt from he has not established that this constitutes a 
membership in an association · and provides no additional evidence demonstrating the process or 
requirements for selection as a black belt. For these reasons the Petitioner has not shown he meets 
this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the alien ·s work in the field for whici1 classification is 
sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translahon 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Although the Director determined that the Petitioner fulfilled this criterion, we disagree and will 
withdraw that finding. The record does not contain published material about the Petitioner in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, including the title, date, and author. 3 
It contains a 2010 article entitled in Veja, a Portuguese language magazine, 
but the article was not accompanied by a full English language translation as required by the 
regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(3). Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified 
English language translation of the article, we cannot meaningfully determine whether it meets the 
requirements of this criterion. Regardless , the article does not appear to be about the Petitioner 
relating to his work as a jiu-jitsu instructor, nor did he provide evidence demonstrating that Veja is a 
professional or major trade publication or other form of major media. 
The record also includes an article titled from 
tmzsports.com. This article is not about the Petitioner nor does it mention him, but it instead 
discusses a altercation withan alleged robber at home.4 Articles that 
are not about a petitioner do not fulfill this regulatory criterion. See. e.g.. Negro-Plumpe v. Okin, 
2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at * 1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding 
a show are not about the actor). We also note that the article in the record does not identify the 
author of the material, as required by the criterion. Furthermore , the Petitioner did not provide 
criterion. We discuss the Petitioner's comparable evidence claim below. 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 6 (providing an example of admission to membership in the 
National Acadeiny of Sciences as a Foreign Associate that requires individuals to be nominated by an academy member, 
and membership is ultimately granted based upon recognition of the individual's distinguished achievements in original 
research). ( 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 7. 
4 The record contains a notarized ~tatement by indicating that the Petitioner has trained him in Brazilian jiu-
jitsu since December 2014. 
3 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
documentation demonstrating that tmzsports.com is a professional or major trade publication or 
other major medium. 
, Finally, the record contains two articles from abc-7.com titled 
and 
Both of these articles are about the Petitioner in his capacity as a jiu-jitsu coach. However, the 
record lacks evidence demonstrating that abc-7 .com is a professional or major trade publication or 
other major medium. For these reasons the Petitioner did not show that he satisfies this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scientific. scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sigtJificance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. The 
Petitioner asserts on appeal that he meets this criterion, but does not ident_ify specific evidence for us 
1 ' to consider. The Petitioner iriitially provided a letter and other documentation relating to this 
criterion. In one letter, a sports business executive and Brazilian 
Jiu-Jitsu Black Belt, states that the Petitioner has made a.positive "impact in [Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu] 
history, spreading the fundaments [sic] of the martial art t·o thousands of people that were once his 
student, supporting people to overcome personal, social and health problems, and becoming better 
elements for society overall." The record also contai'ns a statement from · 
naming the Petitioner as the international representative of for "his singular work in the field 
of this martial art, national and international contribution to the expansion and preservation of 
traditional ... " In addition, of the 
noted that the Petitioner "provides realistic and practical Jiu-Jitsu training tailored to 
law enforcement/correctional officers." He co1nmends the Petitioner for "his continued dedication 
to and the citizens of ____ it is a testament of his abilities, character, and 
generosity." 
The above letters do not provide sufficient information, nor does the record include adequate 
corroborating documentation, to demonstrate how the Petitioner's work as a jiu-jitsu coach has been 
a contribution of major significance to the field. Letters that specifically articulate how the alien's 
contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on subsequent work add value. 
Letters that lack specifics and make broad, unsupported assertions do not add value, and are not 
considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis for meeting this criterion. 5 
Evidence that the alien has per/aimed in a leading or critical role for organizations 
or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii). 
The Director found that the Petitioner had not demonstrated he performed a leading or critical role 
for an organization with a distinguished reputation, and. referenced a letter in th~ record from 
5 USCIS Policy Memoranduin PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
4 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
On appeal, the Petitioner argub that the Director did not analyze the 
correct evidence, and instead identifies two pieces of documentation from the that he asserts 
establish his performance in a critical role for that office. 
Regarding a critical role, the evidence must demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way 
that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities. It is 
not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the performance in the role that determines whether the 
role is or was critical.6 The Petitioner argues that the memo from to 
the Petitioner, serves as "a specific professional request to operate a CRITICAL ROLE." (Emphasis 
in original.) states in this memo that trainers are certified to train law 
enforcement and corrections staff in but that "they needed to expand their 
knowledge and abilities to provide a well-rounded product for our deputies." He notes that " ... 
several of trainers have trained with [the Petitioner] several Jimes a week. The skills and 
techniques that our trainers are learning during these sessions continues to expand their confidence 
and abilities to train the techniques to oui· deputies." Here does not provide 
detailed and probative information addressing how the Petitioner's role as a jiu-jitsu coach has 
contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of activities. 
Moreover, in this memo recommends that "formally contract with [the 
Petitioner] to provide advisory and technical defense. tactics" including "tactic specific instructions 
[sic] and practical application ·of skills on a bi-monthly basis as needed" for the In the 
. second document, a contract between the Petitioner and indicates that the Petitioner "shall 
conduct course for personnel at the 
upon reasonable notice." 7 As described in this part of the memo and in the 
contract, the Petitioner's contributions are prospective, rather than demonstrating that he is 
performing or has already performed a critical role for as required. Without information and 
evidence documenting the impact and importance of any work the Petitioner has conducted for 
the record does not demonstrate the critical nature of his role for this organization. 
The Petitioner also argues on appeal that qualifies as an organization with a distinguished 
reputation, saying that reputation is unquestionable as it is a government agency. In support 
of this assertion, the Petitioner provides a printout of a Wikipedia article titled 
"8 This article provides a general description of the office of county sheriff in Florida, as 
well as a list of the sheriff's duties as provided for in the Fl_orida statutes. However, this article lacks 
information on the or its reputation, nor does the record include other evidence on this issue. 
6 Id. 
7 We note that this contract was executed in March 2018, after the instant petition had been filed. Even were this 
document to establish that the Petitioner met the criterion, he must do so at the time of filing. Eligibility must be 
established at the time of filing. 8 C.F.R. §§ 103.2(b)(I), (12); Matier of Katigbak, 14 l&N Dec. 45, 49 (Reg'! Comm'r 
1971. . 
8 Wikipedia is an online, open source~ collaborative encyclopedia that explicitly states it cannot guarantee the validity of 
its content. See General Disclaimer , Wikipedia (Feb. 11, 2019), https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia :General_discla 
imer; Badasa v. Mukasey, 540 F.3d 909 (8th Cir. 2008). 
5 
.
Matter of F-F-D-S-
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other signfficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation lo others in the .field 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(ix) . 
In order to· satisfy this criterion·, a petitioner must demonstrate that he commands a high salary or 
othe~ significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in his field.9 The record 
contains uncertified copies of the Petitioner's 2016 and 2017 tax returns. These tax returns show 
that the Petitioner earned a salary of $6,660 in 2016 and $8,090 in 2017.10 The returns further show 
that the Petitioner additionally received business income in the amounts of $39,072 in 2016 and 
$77,911 in 2017. We note that other documentation in the record indicates that the Petitioner is the 
proprietor of which does business as 
While the tax returns indicate that the Petitioner's principal business or profession is "Jiu Jitsu 
Instructor, " the record lacks evidence demonstrating that this business income equates to his salary 
or income as an instructor. 
The record also includes screenshots from paysa.com and simplyhired.com which list salaries for the 
top 10% of martial arts instructors as $33,517 and $72,674, respectively.11 However, the Petitioner 
has not demonstrated that salaries of martial arts instructors represent an accurate basis of 
comparison for his earnings. As noted above, the record lacks sufficient documentation to establish 
his salary as a jiu-jitsu instructor in either 2016 or 2017. In addition, we note that previously 
submitted screenshots from indeed.com, which reflected average salaries in locales within Florida, 
indicated thatjiujitsu coaches earn significantly more than "martial arts" instructors.12 
B. Comparable Evidence 
On appeal, the Petitioner indicates that comparable evidence has been submitted relating to three 
criteria: membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), leading or critical role at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii), and commercial success at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(x). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(4) allows for comparable evidence if the listed criteria do not readily apply to his 
occupation. 13 A petitioner should explain why he has not submitted evidence that would satisfy at 
least three of the criteria set forth in 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) as well as why the evidence he has 
included is "comparable" to that required under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 14 Here, the Petitioner has 
not shown why he cannot offer evidence that meets at least three of the criteria. General assertions 
9 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM-602-0005 .1, supra, at I I. 
10 Neither tax return indicates the payer of these salaries, and the tax returns do not include W-2s. 
11 We note that these screenshots do not identify the geographic area from which this data was collected . 
12 The screenshots indicate that, in North Fort Myers and Naples respectively, jiu jitsu coaches earn an average of 
$67,000 and $66,000, while martial arts instructors earn $39,000 and $38,000. · 
u See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, at 12. 
14 Id. 
Matter of F-F-D-S-
that any of the ten objective criteria do not readily apply to an occupation are not probative and 
should be ·discounted. 15 The fact that the Petitioner did not submit documentation that fulfills at least 
three is not evidence that a jiu-jitsu coach could not do so. For these reasons, the Petitioner did not 
show that he is eligible to meet· the initial evidentiary requirements through the submission· of 
comparable evidence. Furthermore, the Petitioner has not explained or established how the 
documentation he has provided is comparable to the listed criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required ini_tial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
! · documents that meet at least three of the ten ·criteria. · As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that 
the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter ofF-F-D-S-, ID# 2118436 (AAO Feb. 27, 2019) 
ts Id.. 
., U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 7584963 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 27, 2020 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a competitive rower, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first 
preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have 
been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner did not 
satisfy any of the ten initial evidentiary criteria for this classification, of which he must meet at least 
three. The Director further found that the Petitioner did not establish that he would continue work in 
his area of extraordinary ability in the United States. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the previously submitted evidence demonstrates that he meets at 
least three criteria and is otherwise qualified for the benefit sought. 
In these proceedings, it is the Petitioner's burden to establish eligibility for the requested benefit. See 
Section 291 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1361. Upon de nova review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l) of the Act makes visas available to immigrants with extraordinary ability if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability, and 
(iii) the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate sustained 
acclaim and the recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time achievement 
(that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not submit this evidence, 
then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of the ten 
categories listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x) (including items such as awards, published material 
in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a competitive rower who has participated in flat water, outrigger canoe, and ocean 
rowing endurance events in his native Brazil and in the United States. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
The Director found that the Petitioner submitted evidence related to four of the ten criteria, but did not 
establish that he meets any of them. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director did not consider 
all of the submitted evidence and maintains that he meets the criteria related to nationally or 
internationally recognized awards, published materials, original athletic contributions of major 
significance, and lead or critical roles with organizations that have a distinguished reputation. After 
reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we find that the Petitioner has not established that he meets 
at least three criteria. 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that he received the prizes or awards, 
and they are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field of endeavor. 1 Relevant 
considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field 
include, but are not limited to, the criteria used to grant the prizes or awards, the national or 
1 See USCTS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, Evaluation of Evidence Submitted with Certain Form I-140 Petitions; 
Revisions to the Adjudicator's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 22.2, AFM Update ADJ 1-14 6 (Dec. 22, 2010), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual/HTML/PolicyManual.html. 
2 
international significance of the prizes or awards in the field, and the number of awardees or prize 
recipients as well as any limitations on competitors. 2 
In determining that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, the Director acknowledged that the 
Petitioner submitted photographs of medals without award certificates, a letter from the I I 
Rowing Federation noting some of his results in Brazilian rowing competitions, and a letter from 
US Rowing that states that the Petitioner's awards in Brazil are nationally recognized, but not generally 
covered by the media. The Director found the evidence insufficient to establish the Petitioner's receipt 
of the medals and insufficient to demonstrate that they are nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in his field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that the Director failed to acknowledge some of his more significant 
international awards and emphasizes that the Petitioner's medals themselves provide adequate 
evidence of his receipt of nationally-recognized awards in Brazil. 
With respect to the Petitioner's medals in Brazilian state and national rowing competitions, we agree 
with the Director that the Petitioner did not submit sufficient evidence to corroborate his receipt of 
nationally or internationally recognized awards in these events. We acknowledge the Petitioner's 
claim that he did not receive award certificates with his medals and that his sport is not widely covered 
by the media. However, the record does not contain evidence such as official event results from the 
Brazilian rowing federations sponsoring the events, or a letter from the Brazilian national rowing 
federation corroborating his medal-winning finishes in national events. 
Further, there appear to be some inconsistencies in the submitted testimonial evidence. For example, 
the Petitioner himself states that his "most important accom lishments" in flat water rowing include 
second and third place finishes in the 2007 and 2008 .,._ ______ _. Rowing Championships, 
and the title of 2004 Brazilian Rowingl lin th event. However, letters from his 
rowing club ----------.----.....,,,..._,,.... and the.__ ____ _. rowing federation! I 
indicate that he was ' Cham ion" in the 2004 national competition with a second place 
finish. The letter from also indicates that the Petitioner had a first place 
finish in the 2007.__.--__ ,......... __ __.while the Petitioner seems to indicate that he finished second, 
and the letter from .___~ indicates that he had a third place finish at this same event. These 
discrepancies underscore the need for official event results. 
Further, we note that even if rowing events were not reported in major media outlets in Brazil, it is 
reasonable to believe that events that resulted in the awarding of nationally recognized awards would 
be covered by the website of the sport's own national governing body. In fact, the Petitioner submitted 
screenshots from the websites ofbothl land Brazilian Rowing which seem to reflect that major 
events and their results are reported there. Here, as noted by the Director, the Petitioner opted to 
provide letters confirming some of his finishes without showing that the bestowed prizes or awards 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in the field. 
Nevertheless, we find sufficient evidence to establish that the Petitioner's first place finish in the 2016 
which was not mentioned in the Director's decision, meets this criterion. The '------------' 
2 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 6. 
3 
Petitioner submitted official race results, letters from USRowing and Thel I Rowing Society, and 
evidence of international media coverage of the event and his team's first place finish from sources 
including Outside magazine, CNBC, Hujjington Post, as well as Brazilian media outlets and the 
official website of the Brazilian rowing federation. Based on this evidence, we find that the Petitioner 
has satisfied this criterion. 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not satisfy this criterion, noting that some of the 
submitted articles were not about him but merely mentioned him and/or did not include an author. 
The Director found that another article in a Brazilian publication was not accompanied by a proper 
translation. Finally, the Director determined that the Petitioner did not provide "comparative statistics 
showing that the publications, all of which appear to be local, constitute major media." 
On appeal, the Petitioner objects to the Director's determination that published material must be "about 
the beneficiary" in order to meet this criterion. However in doing so, the Petitioner misquotes the 
regulatory language at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii), which does in fact require "Published material about 
the alien ... and relating to the alien's work in the field." (Emphasis added). 
The Petitioner's evidence includes an article titled' .__ __________________ __, 
'--------~ that was published by Huffington Post. According to the Petitioner, this article 
"talks almost exclusively about [the Petitioner's JI l" · ·tioner was on 
'-----------' and is named in the article as a member of the.....,_ _____ ___..........,. ........ ...._.. 
not about him or even primarily about the team. Rather, it ident . ..,if=ie=s'-'-------..------' 
current race leader, provides an overview of the standings of the'--------~ on the date of 
publication, provides background information about the race, and highlights the members of some of 
the other competing teams. 
The Petitioner also submitted evidence that Outside magazine published an article, titled 1 I r I" which identifies fye Petitioner as a member 0~ I 
7~. -~I, 'I j." The author interviewed two members of 
the team about the race and the challenges they faced, but the Petitioner was not interviewed and is 
not otherwise mentioned in the article. Articles that are not about a petitioner do not meet this 
regulatory criterion. See, e.g., Negro-Plwnpe v. Okin, 2:07-CV-820-ECR-RJJ at *1, *7 (D. Nev. Sept. 
8, 2008) (upholding a finding that articles regarding a show are not about the actor). Similarly, a press 
release discussing the team's win in thel I was published by CNBC and other outlets 
but onl briefly mentions the Petitioner as a team member. Finall the evidence reflects""th=a=t:..,.._ __ ....., 
chieved a brief entry in the 2018 edition of the L_ _____ ---.-__ ___... ......... ....._ _ __, _ ___, 
.__ ________ ___.' in thel I based on their time in the1.__ _____ ~__, The 
entry, which is two sentences in length, names the Petitioner as a member of but does .__ _____ __, 
not otherwise mention him and does not satisfy this criterion. 
4 
The Petitioner provided an article that is primarily about him and relating to his work in the sport. The 
article, titled'----------~ was published in the Brazilian magazine Bem-estar. However, 
the article does not identify the date of publication, and it is not accompanied by sufficient evidence 
to establish that Bem-estar magazine is a professional or major trade publication or other major media 
in Brazil. 3 The Petitioner submitted a copy of an email from a person identified as I I who 
indicates that the circulation of Bem-estar is around 30,000 per month. Even if this figure came from 
a clearly reliable source, the record does not contain any comparative circulation figures for Brazilian 
magazines or contain any additional information regarding this magazine or its intended audience that 
would support a finding that it is considered major media. 
The Petitioner submitted additional articles about him and his participation in the.__ ______ _. 
published by the website of the Brazilan Rowing League and SupClub, but these were also lacking 
supporting evidence demonstrating that either website is considered major media in Brazil. All other 
articles submitted post-date the filing of the petition. The Petitioner must establish that all eligibility 
requirements for the immigration benefit have been satisfied from the time of the filing and continuing 
through adjudication. 8 C.F .R. § 103 .2(b )(1 ). 
Finally, we acknowledge that the Petitioner submitted screenshots from videos as evidence of the 
Beneficiary's two appearances on Brazilian television. The Petitioner did not provide transcripts for 
these appearances documenting the content of the interviews or reflecting published material about 
him. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence of the individual's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions of major sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), a petitioner must establish that not only 
has he made original contributions but that they have been of major significance in the field. For 
example, a petitioner may show that the contributions have been widely implemented throughout the 
field, have remarkably impacted or influenced the field, or have otherwise risen to a level of major 
significance in the field. 
The Director determined that while the Petitioner had submitted evidence that his team holds a 
.__ ________ ___, and submitted letters that discuss his achievements and abilities in rowing 
and his contributions to individual teams for specific events, he did not illustrate how he has been 
recognized for his original athletic contributions in the sport of rowing. 
On appeal, the Petitioner disagrees with the Director's finding that his first place finish in the~I -~ I I and resulting I I is not evidence of an original contribution of 
major significance. The Petitioner emphasizes that he is "one of a handful of human beings who has 
3 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1, supra, at 7 (indicating that evidence of published material in 
professional or major trade publications or in other major media publications should establish that the circulation ( on-line 
or in print) is high compared to other circulation statistics). 
5 
dared to, and survived, .__ ________ __.in a row boat," noting that this achievement is "the 
very definition of a 'small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor."' 
While the record contains a letter from US Rowing indicating that I I rowing has fewer 
participants than other rowing disciplines, the evidence as a whole does not establish that the act of 
competing in and winning a.__ _____ __. event in C7 rowing is akin to an original athletic 
contribution of major significance. For example, I I vice president of The 
I IRowing Society, explains that her organization was established in 1983 and serves as "the 
official ad·udicator o~ I rowing records." She talks about the history of the sport and of thee==] 
---~__., and states that a win in the race is regarding as an internationally significant prize . .e=J 
founder of the company that organizes thel !indicates that "only the most '---~ accomplished athletes are capable of participating" in the race, and notes that "to compete and win in 
this race is the apex for any rower." He notes that eight world records were broken by participants in 
the 2016 race and states that "the fact that [the Petitioner] was able to break thel I 
I lin this competition shows that he is an [sic] unique and exceptional athlete." While these and 
other letters acknowledge that it was an achievement for the Petitioner to be selected for participation 
in thel I they do not explain how such participation is an "original contribution" to 
the sport or how the Beneficiary's participation had a significant impact on the sport ofrowing orD 
I I rowing. 
Letters that specifically articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field 
and its impact on subsequent work add value. Letters that lack specifics and simply use hyperbolic 
language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence that may form the basis 
for meeting this criterion. 4 
The record also contains several letters that more generallf attest to the Petitioner's athletic talent and 
dedication to the sport. 5 For example, a letter from rower I praises the Petitioner's physical 
conditioning, endurance, technique, and strength, noting his ability to demonstrate "self control, team 
spirit and resilience at all times, characteristics of a true rower." One of the Petitioner's former 
coaches, I I praises his "rigid self-discipline" and describes him as "one of the most 
talented, dedicated and committed athletes" he has trained. However, these letters do not demonstrate 
how his overall athletic talent and commitment to rowing constitutes an original contribution that has 
impacted the sport at a significant level. Possession of advanced athletic skills is not a contribution of 
major significance in and of itself 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not established that the Beneficiary meets the 
requirements for this criterion. 
Evidence that the individual has performed in a leading or critical role for 
organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
4 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 9. 
5 Although we discuss only some of these letters, we have reviewed and considered each one. 
6 
The Petitioner asserts that he meets this criterion based on his roles with~------=--~ 
I I~---------~ and~-------~ As it relates to a leading role, the 
evidence must establish that a petitioner is or was a leader. A title, with appropriate matching duties, 
can help to establish if a role is or was, in fact, leading. Regarding a critical role, the evidence must 
demonstrate that a petitioner has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome 
of the organization or establishment's activities. It is not the title of a petitioner's role, but rather the 
performance in the role that determines whether the role is or was critical. 6 
......... ~~-· ..... ·oner submitted a letter froml I rowing manager for~-----,-,-----' 
who states that the Petitioner was "an asset tol ts Rowing Team from 2003 to 
~------' praises the Petitioner's dedication and athletic ability and lists some of best 
finishes in state, naval and national competition between 2003 and 2007. The Petitioner also provided 
a letter fro~ I o±1 I, where he served on the team in 2002-
2003 at the very beginning of his competitive career, and in 2008-2009.I I states that the 
Petitioner "set himself apart from his peers in the same age group winning notable competitions in 
Brazil such as important regattas of thel !Championship where we were consecrated 
champions of 2002." He indicates that the Petitioner "used to document new techniques and record 
his own time extensively and share across his broader team, helping everyone else become much more 
effective in the process." He concludes that the Petitioner "would be an asset to any rowing team." 
These letters indicate that the Petitioner was considered a valuable member of these rowing clubs, but 
do not show how his training techniques or his competition results establish his leading or critical role 
with either organization. The record contains supporting evidence indicating that these clubs enjoy a 
distinguished reputation in Brazil and have produced world champions and Olympic athletes, but does 
not demonstrate that the Beneficiary's successes in primarily state level competitions, some at the 
junior and novice level, contributed in a way that was of significant importance to the outcome of 
these clubs' activities. 
We also note that while the Petitioner provided statements from counsel indicating that he served as 
team captain for both of these clubs, this role is not mentioned in the Petitioner's own statements, or 
in the letters from representatives of the rowing clubs. Assertions of counsel do not constitute 
evidence. Matter of Obaigbena, 19 I&N Dec. 533, 534 n.2 (BIA 1988) ( citing Matter of Ramirez­
Sanchez, 17 I&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 1980)). Counsel's statements must be substantiated in the record 
with independent evidence, which may include affidavits and declarations. 
In addition, the Petitioner claims that he held a critical role on tea ,,_ _____ -----1that was of 
significant importance to the team's success and first Qlace finish in the The record 
contains testimonial evidence from his teai;nmate I I and race organizer 
explaining the Petitioner's critical role in thel I boat's crew. However, the re._c_o-rd_d_o_e_s_n_o_.t 
establish that this team, which was formed for the sole and temporary purpose of competing in a single 
race, is an "organization or establishment" as required by the language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(iii) 
6 See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, supra, at 10. 
7 
Based on the above, the Petitioner has not submitted sufficient evidence to establish that he has 
performed in a leading or critical role for organizations that have a distinguished reputation in his field. 
B. Summary and Reserved Issue 
As explained above, the submitted evidence satisfies only one of the regulatory criteria. As the 
Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), the appeal 
will be dismissed. 
Since the identified basis for denial is dispositive of the Petitioner's appeal, we decline to reach and 
hereby reserve the Petitioner's appellate arguments regarding whether he established that he is coming 
to "continue work in the area of extraordinary ability" under section 203(b)(l)(A)(ii). See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) ("courts and agencies are not required to make findings on issues 
the decision of which is unnecessary to the results they reach"); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N 
Dec. 516, 526 n.7 (BIA 2015) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
As discussed, the Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time 
achievement or documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide 
the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we 
advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding 
that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS has long held 
that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary 
ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner 
has not shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or 
international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as 
contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(l)(A) 
of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and he is one of the small percentage who has risen to 
the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 27, 2024 In Re: 28787841 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. See Immigration and 
Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary 
ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been 
recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding the Petitioner had not 
established eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability, either as the recipient of a major, 
internationally recognized award, or by meeting at least three of the ten regulatory criteria listed at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance ofthe evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc. , 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification , the statute requires the filing party demonstrate : 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education , business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b )( I )(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top ofthe field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part 
analysis. First, a petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in 
the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that 
pet1t10ner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1121 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The 
Petitioner states he is an expert in the field of safety and risk management. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or shown that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy 
at least three ofthe alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F .R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) (x). The Petitioner initially 
claimed to have satisfied five of these criteria, summarized below 1: 
• (ii), Membership in associations that require outstanding achievements; 
• (iv), Participation as a judge of the work of others; 
• (v), Original contributions of major significance in the field of endeavor; 
• (vi), Authorship of scholarly articles in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media; and 
• (viii), Performed in a leading or critical role for distinguished organizations. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that he only met the criterion for 
authorship of scholarly articles under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
On appeal, the Petitioner challenges the Director's findings regarding his participation as a judge of 
the work of others, original contributions of major significance in the field of endeavor, and leading 
or critical role for distinguished organizations. The Petitioner does not contest the Director's 
determination relating to receiving a major, internationally recognized prize or award and membership 
in associations that require outstanding achievements. Therefore, we consider the Petitioner to have 
waived these issues. 2 
After reviewing all of the evidence in the record, we agree that he has not met the initial evidentiary 
requirements for classification as an individual of extraordinary ability. 
1 As the Petitioner does not and has not claimed to meet any of the remaining criteria not listed, we will not address them 
here. 
2 See Matter of R-A-M-. 25 T&N Dec. 657. 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) (stating that when a filing party fails to appeal an issue 
addressed in an adverse decision. that issue is waived); see also Sepulveda v. US Att'y Gen., 401 F .3d 1226. 1228 n. 2 
(11th Cir. 2005); Hristov v. Roark, No. 09-CV-27312011, 2011 WL 4711885 at *l, 9 (E.D.N.Y. Sept. 30, 2011) (finding 
the plaintiffs claims to be abandoned as he failed to raise them on appeal to the AAO). 
2 
Evidence ofthe individual's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge 
of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specialization for which 
class[fication is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must show that they have not only been invited to judge the work 
of others, but that they have participated in judging the work of others in the same or allied field of 
specialization. The Petitioner submitted evidence that he was invited as an acceptance review expert 
for three national railway projects to evaluate the reports and render approvals for the proposed 
projects. While the Director concluded that the documentation did not demonstrate that the 
Petitioner's role as a judge involved evaluating the specific work of others in his field or an allied 
field, we disagree and conclude that the submitted evidence is sufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business­
related contributions ofmajor sign[ficance in the field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) 
In order to satisfy the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v), we determine not only whether the 
person has made original contributions, but also whether they are of major significance in the field. 3 
Examples of relevant evidence include, but are not limited to: published materials about the 
significance of the person's original work; testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the persons 
original work; documentation that the person's original work was cited at a level indicative of major 
significance in the field; and patents or licenses deriving from the person's work or evidence of 
commercial use of the person's work. 4 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner demonstrated that his contributions are original, but not of 
major significance to the field. The Director explained that although the Petitioner provided a printout 
from the China National Knowledge Infrastructure which shows that the Petitioner's seven journal 
publications were cited 54 times since 2002, he did not submit evidence to demonstrate that this 
number of citations is indicative of major significance to the field. The Petitioner does not address 
this particular issue on appeal but instead repeats that he has "been cited by other scholars in their 
research and implemented in the transportation safety and risk management systems in the field." 
Without more, the Petitioner has not shown that his citations for his publications are commensurate 
with contributions of major significance. 
The Petitioner also focuses on the national government-funded projects in which he incorporated his 
transportation safety and risk management theorems and systems and the letters of recommendation 
from individuals in the field. While the Petitioner has shown the original research he performed on 
the national projects has had some impact in the field, he has not established the level of significance 
in the field required by this criterion. The Petitioner has not sufficiently shown wide acceptance or 
implementation of his research findings or that experts in the field have relied on his research findings 
in their own studies or deemed his studies as crucial in their own projects. 
In addition, while the Petitioner provided letters of recommendation from individuals that discuss his 
contributions to the field, including his work on the national government-funded projects, they do not 
3 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2(B)(l), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
4 Id. 
3 
demonstrate how his contributions are "of major significance in the field." The letters restate the 
Petitioner's claims and lack specific information about the impact ofthe contribution on the field. For 
example, the letter from M-R-states that the Petitioner developed a theory for the safety assessment 
and safety approval for the operation of the I Iand that the 
application "ended up with good results, solved a large number of safety problems or hidden risks, 
and played a vital role in ensuring the system safety and safe operation of [the] 
I I M-R-further states that due to the successful application of~h-is_t_h_e-ory--on-th-e~
I Ithe Petitioner was invited by the I I I I to provide support for the safety approval of their maglev project. 
The letter from B-W-states that the Petitioner "initiated the "Risk Research System of Liability 
Insurance in Safe Production Based on International Standards" in China's insurance industry." B­
W-also states that the "Research Guide compiled by [the Petitioner] in accordance with the "Risk 
Research System of Liability Insurance in Safe Production Based on International Standards" has 
become the research basis and unified guidance of the three subprojects," building construction, 
hazardous chemical, and coal mine, and that it "has been further applied, which has generated 
important social and economic value in providing risk assessment and accident prevention services of 
liability insurance in safe production for the insurance industry, screening hidden accident dangers for 
insured enterprises, and improving the level of work safety management." 
However, the letters do not provide sufficient specific information to demonstrate that the Petitioner's 
contributions are of major significance to the field. For example, the letters do not establish that the 
Petitioner's contributions have resulted in a substantial effect in the field. Letters that specifically 
articulate how a petitioner's contributions are of major significance to the field and its impact on 
subsequent work add value. 5 
Without more specific information and evidence demonstrating that his work constitutes original 
contributions of major significance in the field, the Petitioner has not established that he meets this 
criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or 
establishments that have a distinguished reputation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(viii) 
To meet this criterion, a petitioner must first establish that they have performed in either a leading or 
critical role for an organization, establishment, or one of its divisions or departments. A petitioner must 
then establish that the organization or establishment ( or the department or division) for which they hold 
or held a qualifying role has a distinguished reputation. 6 
The Petitioner claimed to satisfy this criterion through his position as deputy manager of the Safety and 
ualit De artment and Safet Assessment Center (SQDSAC) at ~----------~ 
4 
I 
I The record establishes that the Petitioner has held a leading role for the SQDSAC at I 
._______.I The next question is whether SQDSAC has a distinguished reputation, defined as "marked by 
eminence, distinction, or excellence or befitting an eminent person."7 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that: 
._________________ ___. in China at the time, and assuming the 
country's important maglev science project to develop the technology, II !indeed enjoyed a distinguished reputation as there were no other 
entities in the field and it had successfully completed the .________ ~(theI Iin the country. 
In addition, the Petitioner submits a document entitled "Special Report on Safety Evaluation of 
Commercial Operation System of I Iwhich was previously 
submitted in response to the Director's request for evidence. 
While we acknowledge that the company was the.
________ ___.in China and that it completed 
a national project,! Idoes not necessarily establish its distinguished reputation. 
More importantly, the Petitioner does not provide sufficient supporting documentation to establish 
that SQDSAC, the division or department in which he held a leading role, has a distinguished 
reputation, as required under this criterion. The Petitioner did not include evidence, for example, 
showing the field's view of the SQDSAC or how its successes or accomplishments relate to others, 
signifying a distinguished reputation consistent with the regulatory criterion. Accordingly, the 
Petitioner has not demonstrated that he fulfills this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Because the Petitioner has not established that he meets at least three of the ten criteria, we need not 
provide the type of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-
20. Nevertheless, we advise that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does 
not support a conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for 
the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification. USCIS has long held that even athletes 
performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" 
standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N Dec. 953,954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). Here, the Petitioner has not 
shown that the significance of his work is indicative of the required sustained national or international 
acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by 
Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and that he is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very 
top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
7 See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/distinguished, cited m 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 appendix, 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
5 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
6 MATTEROF E-S-N-
APPEAL OF TEXAS SERVICE CENTER DECISION Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
DATE: FEB. 28, 2019 
PETITION: FORM 1-140, IM~IGRANT PETITION FOR ALIEN WORKER 
· The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability in the arts. See 
Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This 
first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their 
extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose ach,ievements 
have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the Petitioner had 
satisfied two of the initial evidentiary criteria, of which he must meet at least three. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contends that he meets a third criterion that relates to original contributions 
of major significance in the field, 8 C.F.R._§ 204.5(h)(3)(v), and qualifies for the classification. 
Upon de novo review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act makes visas available to certain immigrants if: 
(i) the alien has extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international 
acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive.documentation, 
(ii) the alien seeks to enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary 
' ability, and 
(iii)the alien's entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The regulation at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3) sets forth two options for satisfying this classification's initial evidence requirements. 
.
Matter of E-S-N-
First, a petlt10ner can demonstrate a one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally 
recognized award). If the petitioner does not submit this evidence, then he or she must provide 
documentation that meets at least three of the ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) 
(including items such as qualifying awards, published material in certain media, and scholarly 
articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
submitted material in a final merits determination and assess whether the record, as a whole, shows 
sustained national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small 
percentage at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USC!S, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119-20 
(9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if 
fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination) ; 
see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); R(jal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 
2d 1339, 1343 (W.D. Wash. 2011). This two-step analysis is consistent with our holding that the 
"truth is to be determined not by the quantity of evidence alone but by its quality," as well as the 
.principle that we examine "each piece of evidence for relevance, probative value, and credibility , 
both individually and within the context of the totality of the evidence, to determine whether the fact 
to be proven·is probably true." Matter ofChawathe , 25 r&N Dec. 369,376 (AAO 2010). 
IL ANALYSIS 
) 
The record, including the Petitioner's statements , shows that he is an advertising executive and an 
artist specialized in pop art. The Director concluded that the Petitioner meets the published material 
criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 1 and the display, criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(vii) .2 The record supports this conclusion. Specifically , the Petitioner has submitted 
articles discussing his artwork and exhibitions in publications that, based on their circulation and 
reach, are considered major media in his country of citizenship, Brazil. In addition, he has 
established that his work has been displayed at the __ and a 
cultural center. Although he has satisfied two criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) and (vii), he 
has not satisfied the initial evidence requirements of meeting at least three criteria. 3 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that he meets a third criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v) , 
which requires him to present "[e]vidence of [his] original scientific , scholarly, artistic, athletic, or 
business-related contributions of major significance in the field." To satisfy this criterion, the 
1 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires the Petitioner to submit "[p]ublished material about the alien in 
professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which 
classification is sought," noting that "[s]uch evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any 
necessary translation." · 
2 The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vii) requires the Petitioner to submit "[e]vidence of the display of the alien's 
work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases. " 
3 The Petitioner has not alleged, and the record does not demonstrate , that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). As such, he must provide documentation that meets at least three of the 
ten criteria listed under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) to satisfy the initial evidence requirements . 
2 
.
Matter of E-S-N-
Petitioner must establish that not only has he made original contributions but that they have been of 
major significance in the field. Not all contributions are qualifying. Rather, he must offer 
documentation confirming that his contributions rise to the level of major significance in the field. 
The Petitioner maintains that he has met this criterion because he has offered "a host of publications 
and announcements concerning the event, and 
that "[his] works were so well-received that the presentation and exhibition of the works was 
published in practically every medium from online to magazines, newspapers and television in 
Brazil." On appeal, he offers a June 2017 letter from who had served as the 
curator for his exhibitions, and an analytical report from . , a museological 
consultant firm, as evidence that his work constitutes original contributions of major significance in 
pop art. 
In his letter, a curator at the indicates that he allowed the Petitioner to show 
his work at the museum because of "its originality. " He states that the Petitioner 's art "opened up a 
heated debate on means of communication, views of different moments in time and new ways of 
differentiating between the individual and the collective observation. " He claims that the work 
"made an impact on the artistic world, and people saw in [the] work an unexpected offshoot of Pop 
Art and a real contribution to 'contemporary Brazilian art." He notes that he wrote a book about the 
Petitioner and his artwork. 
The analytical report, like the letter from provides details about the Petitioner 's 
work, including his exhibits, explaining that he has combined visual 
elements from different eras to create art that is thought provoking . The report indicates that the 
Petitioner's work has been exhibited in two "important and reputable Brazilian contemporary art 
museums," including the and has garnered favorable reviews. It also provides that in 2014, 
wrote a book about the Petitioner. 
The record includes insufficient evidence establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, 4 that the 
Petitioner's work constitutes major significance in pop art. While the decisions of museums and 
other artistic venues to show the Petitioner's work might confirm that they saw value in the work 
and believed that it should be shared with the public, such activities alone, without evidence of their 
major significance in the field, are not sufficient to satisfy the criterion under 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(v). See Kazarian v. USCJS, 580 F.3d 1030, 1036 (9th Cir. 2009), affd in part, 596 F.3d 
1115. For example, the confirms in an October 2009 letter that it presented the Petitioner's 
work in an exhibition. The letter, however, does not indicate what impact the work might have had 
in the field, or that the museum chose to present the exhibition because the work or the Petitioner 
4 If a petitioner submits relevant, probative, anicredible evidence that leads U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
(USCIS) to believe that the claim is "more likely than not" or "probably true," the petitioner has satisfied the 
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof. See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005 .1, Evaluation of 
Evidence Submitted with Certain Form 1-140 Petitions; Revisions to the Aqjudicator 's Field Manual (AFM) Chapter 
22.2, AFM Update ADI 1-14 4 (Dec. 22, 2010), http://www.uscis.gov /laws/policy-memoranda . 
.
( . Maller of E-S-N-
had significantly influenced or impacted pop art. Similarly, although published materials in the 
record discussed the opening of the exhibition and offered information about the artwork, 
they do not specify the exhibition or the Petitioner's contributions in the field, or demonstrate that 
such contributions rose to the level of major significance. 
The documents in the record, including reference letters and evidence we have not specifically 
discussed , do not confirm that the Petitioner's work has significantly impacted or influ{?nced, or 
otherwise constitutes contributions of major significance in pop art. Letters that offer general praises 
of the Petitioner and that repeat the regulatory language, but do not sufficiently explain how his 
contributions have already influenced the field significantly are insufficient to satisfy this criterion. 
See USCIS Policy Memorandum PM 602-0005.1 , supra, 9 (noting "[l]etters that lack specifics and 
simply use hyperbolic language do not add value, and are not considered to be probative evidence 
that may form the basis for meeting this criterion"); see also Kazarian , 596 F.3d at 1122 (finding 
"letters from physics professors attesting to [a petitioner's] contributions in the field" were 
insufficient to meet this criterion) ; Visinscaia , 4 F. Supp. 3d at 134-35 (upholding a finding that a 
ballroom dancer had not met this criterion because she did not demonstrate her impact in the field as 
a whole). 
Likewise, the record does not confirm that the publication of book is indicative of 
the Petitioner's contributions of major significance in pop art. The book, which the 
5 had published, details art workshops that the Petitioner led and that 
were designed for individuals with intellectual impairments. It documents the participants' creative 
process and showcases their finished artwork. The book does not discuss the Petitioner 's 
contributions in pop art, the field in which he claims extraordinary ability, nor does it establish that 
his contributions rise to the level of major significance or that his selection to lead the workshops 
confirms that he has made contributions of major significance in pop art. Based on the evidence in 
the record, the Petitioner has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that he has made 
original contributions of major significance in pop art. · 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of 
final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless , upon a 
review of the record in its entirety, we conclude that it does not support a finding that he has 
established the acclaim and recognition required for this classification. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals who are already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward the top. USCIS 
has long held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
5 The record shows that the is a public interest organization in Brazil, 
that helps intellectually impaired individuals . 
4 
Matter ofE-S-N-
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r. 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his artistic accomplishments is indicative 
of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of 
acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 
1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act; 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the foregoing reasons, the Petitioner has not shown that he qualifies for classification as an 
individual of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
Cite as Matter of E-S-N-, ID# 2131108 (AAO Feb. 28, 2019) 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25678862 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a musician who composes and performs music. He seeks classification as an alien of 
extraordinary ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a musician who blends traditional folk music with other genres such as R&B, pop, 
and jazz. He also invented a new form of a bass guitar reportedly expanding the abilities of the 
musician to be more versatile. 
Because the Petitioner has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally 
recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met four of the regulatory criteria. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied the published material criterion, but he did not satisfy 
the criteria associated with original contributions, authorship of scholarly articles, or performing in a 
leading or critical role. On appeal, the Petitioner maintains that he meets the same criteria the Director 
denied. After reviewing all the evidence in the record, we conclude he has not demonstrated eligibility 
under this immigrant classification. 
Evidence of the alien's original scient[fic, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related 
contributions of major significance in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v). 
The Petitioner's claims under this criterion boil down to his invention of a "fretted/fretless hybrid bass 
guitar." His supporting evidence consisted of testimonial letters, articles, and his personal statement. 
The Director determined that the Petitioner did not meet the requirements of this criterion specifically 
noting a lack of evidence to demonstrate the originality of the Petitioner's instrument. After discussing 
testimonial letters, the Director determined that the authors failed to demonstrate how his work 
influenced the field as a whole that went beyond a group, an individual, or an organization. The 
Director continued discussing the bass guitar and indicated the Petitioner did not provide evidence that 
the guitar has resulted in significant commercial sales or had an impact on musicians or individuals in 
the field and how they perform. 
The primary requirements here are that the Petitioner's contributions in his field were original and 
they rise to the level of major significance in the field as a whole, rather than to a project or to an 
organization. See Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 134 (D.D.C. 
2013)). The regulatory phrase "major significance" is not superfluous and, thus, it has some meaning. 
Nielsen v. Preap, 139 S. Ct. 954, 969 (2019) ( finding that every word and every provision in a statute 
2 
is to be given effect and none should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it to duplicate 
another provision or to have no consequence). Further, the Petitioner's contributions must have 
already been realized rather than being potential, future improvements. Contributions of major 
significance connotes that his work has significantly impacted the field. The Petitioner must submit 
evidence satisfying all of these elements to meet the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts the testimonial letters, articles, and his personal statements should 
amply demonstrate that his work has made groundbreaking and original contributions of major 
significance in the field of music. The only testimonial letter the Petitioner discusses under this 
criterion is from I lthat he provided when responded to the Director's request for evidence. I ls peaks of the Petitioner as a unique and original talent noting the methods in which he uses 
the bass "are completely new and are opening new doors in the music industry. These techniques have 
never been used before and are revolutionizing World Music as a genre. Both his playing and singing 
will surely continue to influence and inspire generations to come." 
Despite I I contention that the Petitioner's methods are opening new doors and his 
techniques are revolutionizing a particular genre, he does not offer specific examples of these effects 
in the field. Even though! !claims the Petitioner's performance will continue to have an 
influence in the field, neither he nor the Petitioner adequately explain the present impact in the field 
nor do they corroborate that claim either through testimony or supporting evidence. This criterion 
requires more than for one to possess unique skills and knowledge and to have others attest to those 
aptitudes. The Petitioner must have demonstrably impacted his field in order to meet this regulatory 
criterion. See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(v); see also Amin, 24 F.4th at 394 (citing Visinscaia, 4 F. Supp. 
3d at 134). 
The Petitioner's appeal brief also describes an article from Bass Magazine. This evidence is dated in 
August 2022, after the Petitioner filed the petition in February 2021. A request for an immigration 
benefit "must establish that he or she is eligible for the requested benefit at the time of filing the benefit 
request .... " 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l). Any additional evidence submitted in connection with a benefit 
request at a later date, including evidence responding to a request from USCIS, must also establish 
"eligibility at the time the benefit request was filed." 8 C.F.R. § I 03.2(b )(12); Robinson v. Napolitano, 
554 F.3d 358, 364 (3d Cir. 2009). "Under this rule, USCIS will deny [an immigration benefit] if the 
[filing party] becomes eligible only after the [benefit] was filed." Tingzi Wang v. United States 
Citizenship & Immigr. Servs., 375 F. Supp. 3d 22, 27 (D.D.C. 2019) (citing 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b)(l2)). 
Because this article postdates the petition filing date, we will not consider it in this petition. 
Finally, within the Petitioner's personal statement, he describes his bass guitar's original nature as it 
relates to its design and he explains that two years before he filed this petition, he was invited to 
showcase his invention at a popular trade show where he received significant interest in the instrument. 
But he does not detail how he parlayed any of that interest for this new instrument, nor does he explain 
how this invention has already impacted the field through any measurable means. This criterion 
requires more than simply introducing a newly designed instrument to the field. It also must have 
already made a significant impact within his field and that is where the Petitioner falls short in this 
filing. 
3 
We conclude the Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of 
this criterion. 
Evidence of the alien 's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major 
trade publications or other major media. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(vi). 
This criterion contains multiple evidentiary elements the Petitioner must satisfy through the 
submission of evidence. The first element is that the Petitioner is an author of scholarly articles in 
his field in which he intends to engage once admitted to the United States as a lawful permanent 
resident. We consider these articles to fall within two distinct areas. 
One area is within the academic arena in which a scholarly article reports on original research, 
experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is 
often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. In general, it should have footnotes, 
endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the 
concepts expressed in the article. The next area lies outside of the academic arena in which a 
scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. "Learned" is defined as "having 
or demonstrating profound knowledge or scholarship." Learned persons include all persons having 
profound knowledge of a field. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual. 
The second evidentiary element this criterion requires is that the scholarly articles appear in one of 
the following: (1) a professional publication, (2) a major trade publication, or (3) in a form of major 
media. Regarding the medium in which the articles appear, the Petitioner should establish that the 
publication's circulation statistics are high relative to similar publications and should also establish 
the publication's intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual, supra, at F.2 
(Appendices). The Petitioner must submit evidence satisfying each of these elements to meet the 
plain language requirements of this criterion. 
The Petitioner provided one article under this requirement. The Director determined that the Petitioner 
did not meet the requirements of this criterion. First, the Director noted the evidence did not include 
the Petitioner's name as the author and instead identified the publication. The Director also determined 
that although the material appeared in a popular magazine, it was not seemingly intended for learned 
persons in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner contests the Director's first point asserting that even though the evidence 
does not name him as the author, it is obvious that he penned the piece. As a result, the Petitioner has 
not shown that he is the article's author, nor did he provide corroborating evidence from the publisher 
that might aid in his eligibility claims. Nor has he offered a legal authority indicating this regulatory 
requirement may be set aside. The regulations have the force and effect of law and are binding on all 
USCIS employees, and we cannot simply ignore those requirements. Matter of L-, 20 I&N Dec. 553, 
556 (BIA 1992) (citing Bridges v. Wixon, 326 U.S. 135, 153 (1945). 
An agency must adhere to its own rules and regulations, and ad hoc departures from those rules, even to 
achieve laudable aims, cannot be sanctioned. Blanton v. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 909 
F.3d 1162, 1176 (D.C. Cir. 2018) (quoting Reuters Ltd. v. FCC, 781 F.2d 946, 950-51 (D.C. Cir. 
4 
1986). Because the Petitioner has not sufficiently demonstrated that he is this article's author, he cannot 
prevail here based on this evidence and it is unnecessary for us to evaluate whether it appeared in one of 
the required publication types. See Matter of M-M-A-, 28 I&N Dec. 494, 497 (BIA 2022) (recognizing 
that we are not required decide on other eligibility factors when a filing party cannot satisfy one 
dispositive element). The Petitioner has not submitted evidence that meets the plain language 
requirements of this criterion. 
We conclude that although the Petitioner claims he meets four criteria, because his arguments fail on 
the criteria we discussed above, that means he cannot numerically meet the required number of criteria 
and it is unnecessary for us to reach a decision on his other claimed elements under the leading or 
critical role requirement. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of three 
criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve our evaluation of those requirements. See INS v. 
Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25 (1976) (finding it unnecessary to analyze additional grounds when 
another independent issue is dispositive of the appeal); see also Matter of D-L-S-, 28 I&N Dec. 568, 
576-77 n.10 (BIA 2022) (declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is 
otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 22642744 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner is a doctor who seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability. See Immigration 
and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A). This first preference 
classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability 
through sustained national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in 
their field through extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 
291 of the Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in 
this matter de novo. Matter of Christo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo 
review, we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
To qualify under this immigrant classification, the statute requires the filing party demonstrate: 
• The foreign national enjoys extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics; 
• They seek to enter the country to continue working in the area of extraordinary ability; and 
• The foreign national's entry into the United States will substantially benefit the country in the 
future. 
Section 203(b)(l)(A)(i)-(iii) of the Act. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those 
individuals in "that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(2). 
The implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a 
petitioner can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a 
one-time achievement (that is, a major, internationally recognized award). If that petitioner does not 
submit this evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at 
least three of the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x) (including items such as awards, 
published material in certain media, and scholarly articles). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also Amin 
v. Mayorkas, 24 F.4th 383, 394 (5th Cir. 2022). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a urologist who has studied the integration of traditional and western medicine, and 
was the director of urological surgery at his hospital when he filed the petition. Because the Petitioner 
has not indicated or established that he has received a major, internationally recognized award, he 
must satisfy at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). Before 
the Director, the Petitioner claimed he met the following eight categories: 
• Lesser prizes or awards; 
• Membership; 
• Published material; 
• Participation as a judge; 
• Contributions of major significance; 
• Authorship of scholarly articles; 
• Performance of a leading or critical role for distinguished entities; and 
• High salary or remuneration. 
The Director decided that the Petitioner satisfied two of the criteria relating to judging and the 
authorship of scholarly articles, but he had not satisfied the other criteria listed above. On appeal, the 
Petitioner maintains that he meets the evidentiary criteria relating to published material and awards. 
But he does not raise and has therefore abandoned or waived his claims under the membership, original 
contributions, leading or critical role, and high salary or remuneration criteria. Matter of 
Mariscal-Hernandez, 28 I&N Dec. 666, 672 (BIA 2022). After reviewing all the evidence in the 
record, we conclude he has not demonstrated eligibility for this highly restrictive classification. 
Documentation of the alien's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes 
or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
This criterion contains several evidentiary elements, all of which must be met to satisfy the regulation. 
According to the plain language of the regulation the evidence must establish: ( 1) the foreign national 
is the recipient of the prizes or the awards; (2) those accolades are nationally or internationally 
recognized; and (3) each prize or award is one for excellence in the field of endeavor. The Petitioner 
2 
claimed several awards and the Director determined that each was not nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field, or the record did not establish they were issued for excellence in the field. 
First, in his appeal the Petitioner essentially restates his claims as presented to the Director and does 
not describe how the Director might have erred in their analysis as it relates to his awards. Further, 
we conclude the record lacks sufficient evidence to demonstrate his awards are nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field. 
The Petitioner presented his 2010 third prize ___________ ward issued by the 
municipal government in I I As this award was issued by the municipal government, and because 
the Petitioner has not offered probative material establishing its recognition goes beyond the issuing 
entity, it appears to be regional in nature. Even accolades issued by a government might not be 
nationally recognized in the field. A petitioner should offer probative evidence showing an award 
receives at least national-level attention that goes beyond the issuing governing body (e.g., within a 
petitioner's field). The Petitioner has not offered evidence demonstrating this award is nationally or 
internationally recognized in the field. 
Next, the Petitioner submits two awards issued by the Medicine. 
In 2020, this organization issued him a first prize award and in 2011 they granted him the second prize 
award; each accolade was a science and technology award. We observe the translated document 
detailing this award's plans reflects that this award is issued to collectives and individuals who have 
achieved a certain level of results in basic study. However, the document continues stating "[p ]rojects 
that have won this award will be recommended for National Science and Technology Awards based 
on the principle of meritocracy." The Petitioner's awards appear to be at a level lesser than those that 
are nationally or internationally recognized in the field. 
The final awards the Petitioner claims on appeal are third prize science and technology awards in the 
2007 and 20 l 0 events. Thel Medical Sciences issued these awards. Even 
though we acknowledge the issuing entity's reputation, the Petitioner has not established that these 
awards, from more than a decade before he filed the petition, were nationally or internationally 
recognized in the field. National and international recognition results, not from the individual who 
signed or issued the prize or the award, but through the awareness of the accolade in the eyes of the 
field nationally or internationally. This recognition should be evident through specific means; for 
example, but not limited to, national or international-level media coverage. Sufficiently probative 
evidence that an award is nationally or internationally recognized is generally material from sources 
besides the issuing entity. Krasniqi v. Dibbins, 558 F. Supp. 3d 168, 183 (D.N.J. 2021). 
Although the Petitioner demonstrates he has received accolades for his work, we conclude he has not 
submitted evidence that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
Published material about the alien in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media, relating to the alien's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence 
3 
shall include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessa,y translation. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Within the appeal, the Petitioner identifies the authorship of scholarly articles criterion at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(vi) and for supportive evidence under that requirement, he discusses an article that the 
Petitioner did not author. It is unclear why the Petitioner has identified this evidence on appeal as the 
Director determined his evidence satisfied the scholarly articles criterion. In case the brief mistakenly 
placed the discussion of published material under the portion in which the Petitioner mentions 
scholarly articles, we discuss the published material criterion here. 
The Petitioner discussed one article before the Director, and he presents the same material on appeal. 
While the Director focused on other requirements in their denial decision, we also note additional 
deficiencies. First, the article is in a foreign language but it is not accompanied by a certified 
translation, which is a requirement of 8 C.F.R. § 103.2(b )(3). The regulation requires that the translator 
certifies the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that the translator is competent to 
translate from the foreign language into English. Because the Petitioner did not submit a properly certified 
English language translation of the document, we cannot meaningfully determine whether the translated 
material is accurate and thus supports his claims. The information relating to this publication has a 
translation suffering from this same shortcoming. 
Moreover, the translated material does not contain the article's date as the regulation requires. Finally, 
the Petitioner did not identify the circulation figures for other publications in China by which it can be 
determined through comparison that Long Life Magazine is one of the qualifying publication types. 
See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual (noting 
that "[ee ]vidence of published material in professional or major trade publications or in other major 
media publications about the person should establish that the circulation (on-line or in print) is high 
compared to other circulation statistics .... "). In summary, the Petitioner has not submitted evidence 
that meets the plain language requirements of this criterion. 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields, rather than for individuals progressing toward that goal. USCIS has long 
held that even athletes performing at the major league level do not automatically meet the 
"extraordinary ability" standard. Matter of Price, 20 I&N Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). 
Here, the Petitioner has not shown the significance of their work is indicative of the required sustained 
national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" 
as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 
203(b )(1 )(A). Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered 
4 
national or international acclaim in the field, and they are one of the small percentage who has risen 
to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 203(b)(l)(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each 
considered as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
5 Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25675486 Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision 
Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an alien of extraordinary ability . See Immigration and Nationality 
Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. § l 153(b )(1 )(A). This first preference classification makes 
immigrant visas available to those who can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in their field through 
extensive documentation. 
The Texas Service Center Director denied the Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers 
(petition), concluding that the Petitioner did not establish that he received a major, internationally 
recognized award, nor did he demonstrate that he met at least three of the ten regulatory criteria. The 
matter is now before us on appeal. The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility 
to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services by a preponderance of the evidence. Section 291 of the 
Act; Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369,375 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter ofChristo 's Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537,537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, we 
will dismiss the appeal. 
I. ANALYSIS 
After reviewing the entire record, we adopt and affirm the Director's ultimate determination with the 
added comments below. See Matter ofBurbano, 20 I&N Dec. 872, 874 (BIA 1994); see also Giday 
v. I.NS., 113 F.3d 230,234 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (noting the practice ofadopting and affirming the decision 
below has been "universally accepted by every other circuit that has squarely confronted the issue"); 
Chen v. INS, 87 F.3d 5, 7-8 (1st Cir. 1996) Uoining eight U.S. Courts of Appeals in holding that 
appellate adjudicators may adopt and affirm the decision below as long as they give "individualized 
consideration" to the case). 
The Petitioner filed the initial petition with a large amount of evidence, but he did not adequately 
instruct the Director of how the material applied to any particular regulatory criterion. The Director 
issued a request for evidence and in response the Petitioner included some additional infonnation 
about awards as well as the criteria he was claiming, but that response still lacked a description of 
what evidence applied to those other criteria and how it demonstrated his eligibility. 
The Director denied the petition offering a brief analysis relating to the Petitioner's claimed one-time 
achievement and the lesser prizes or awards criterion, noting he did not satisfy the requirements for 
either of them. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates his claims of a one-time achievement and he again 
lists the criteria he claims to meet, but he only offers a broad statement that the Director was incorrect 
to deny his petition. Like the filing before the Director, the Petitioner's appellate filing lacks specific 
arguments relating to each regulatory requirement, the evidence that applies to each criterion, and an 
explanation of how that evidence satisfies each criterion. 
This is not an adequate basis to contest the Director's adverse decision on the regulatory criteria at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The reason for filing an appeal is to provide an affected party with the 
means to remedy what they perceive as an erroneous conclusion of law or statement of fact within a 
decision in a previous proceeding. See 8 C.F.R. § 103.3(a)(l)(v). By presenting only a generalized 
statement without explaining the specific aspects of the denial they consider to be incorrect, the 
affected party has failed to identify the basis for the appeal. Matter of Valencia, 19 I&N Dec. 354, 
354-55 (BIA 1986). We consider those issues (the regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x)) 
waived on appeal. Matter ofO-R-E-, 28 l&N Dec. 330,336 n.5 (BIA 2021) (citing Matter ofR-A-M-, 
25 I&N Dec. 657, 658 n.2 (BIA 2012) and finding when a filing party mentions an issue without 
developing an argument, the issue is deemed waived). 
As it relates to the Petitioner's claimed one-time achievement , he asserts the "Hispanic American 
World Congress and the World Congress of Universities Award is only given to prestigious 
personalities who have left their mark on their work worldwide." 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence purporting to be a 
major, internationally recognized award. Congress intended to restrict this immigrant classification 
to "that small percentage of individuals who have risen to the very top of their field of endeavor," the 
regulation permitting eligibility based on a one-time achievement must be interpreted very narrowly, 
with only a small handful of awards qualifying as major, internationally recognized awards. See H.R. 
Rep. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. 
Given that the House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time 
achievement, examples of one-time awards which enjoy major, international recognition may include 
the Pulitzer Prize, the Academy Award, and (most relevant for athletics) an Olympic Medal. 
The regulation is consistent with this legislative history, stating that a one-time achievement must be 
a major, internationally recognized award. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) . The selection ofNobel Laureates, 
the example provided by Congress, is reported in the top media internationally regardless of the 
nationality of the awardees , is a familiar name to the public at large, and includes a large cash prize. 
While an internationally recognized award could conceivably constitute a one-time achievement 
without meeting all those elements, it is clear from the example provided by Congress that the award 
must be global in scope and internationally recognized in the foreign national's field as one of the top 
awards in that field. 
Although the Petitioner's identified award is an achievement, the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) 
requires the one-time achievement to be "a major, intemational[ly] recognized award." The Petitioner 
did not present evidence, for example, establishing that this award is widely reported by international 
media, is recognized by the general public, or gamers attention comparable to other major, globally 
2 
recognized awards such as Academy Award winners. He relies on a letter from the issuing entity but 
does not offer adequate coverage of this award. Accordingly, the Petitioner has not demonstrated that 
his receipt of this award meets the requirements of a one-time achievement. 
II. CONCLUSION 
The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered an independent and 
alternative basis for the decision. In visa petition proceedings, it is a petitioner's burden to establish 
eligibility for the immigration benefit sought. The Petitioner has not met that burden. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
3 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 24829454 
Appeal of Texas Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional Saddlebred Horse trainer, seeks classification as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A) , 8 U.S.C. § 
1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Texas Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing 
the Petitioner's receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, or by meeting three of the ten 
evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 
103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
An individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability classification if they have extraordinary ability 
in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and their achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; they seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and their entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the 
United States. Section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, a petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three of the ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements, we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional Saddlebred Horse trainer who has participated in show horse 
competitions in South Africa and the United States. The Petitioner currently operates a horse training 
and sales facility inl I Kentucky. She intends to continue to train and show horses 
competitively in the United States. 
The record shows that the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate both that she received a major, 
internationally recognized award, and that she satisfied at least three of the alternate regulatory criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Director determined that, while the Petitioner did not establish 
her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award, she met one of the five criteria she claimed 
to have satisfied: participation as a judge of others' work in her field of endeavor. 1 The Director 
concluded that the Petitioner did not establish that she met criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), (ii), 
(iii), and (v). On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she meets these additional criteria, as well as the 
requirements pertaining to receipt of a major internationally recognized award; she states that U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) misapplied the law and misinterpreted the facts of the 
case. 
As more fully discussed below, we agree, in part, with the Director's analysis of the evidence. Where 
we disagree we have provided an explanation of our determination. We conclude that the evidence of 
record does not satisfy the requirements of 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3); therefore, we will dismiss the 
Petitioner's appeal. 
A. One-time Achievement 
The regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) states that a petitioner may submit evidence of a one-time 
achievement that is a major, internationally recognized award. The Director noted in his decision that 
the record should demonstrate that the award is internationally recognized and generally regarded as 
a major award in the field. In response to a request for evidence (RFE), the Petitioner cited her first­
place awards at the World's Championship Horse Show inl I Kentucky, in 2019, 2020, and 
2021, as well as her receipt of four I I Championship titles. The record includes 
documentation of these awards and information about the competition's history from the event's 
1 See 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv). 
2 
website. The Director's decision implies some doubt as to whether the Petitioner won the awards she 
claims to have won. The Director noted that the Petitioner's name does not appear on certain trophies 
and he concluded that lists showing the Petitioner's placement results "are not official documents," 
declining to use information provided to assess the veracity of the placement results through 
subscription-only access to a website, com. On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that 
the absence of her name from the trophies should not be conclusive evidence that did not win the titles 
she claims to have won; she refers to documentation in the form of letters of endorsement, certificates, 
and competition records as corroborating evidence of her receipt of the awards, 
Upon review of the record, the Petitioner has established that she received the awards; the record 
includes letters of endorsement that reference the Petitioner winning several of the awards listed, and 
the Petitioner verified her wins through online sources. As to whether the awards are regarded as 
major, internationally recognized achievements, the Director determined that there was no objective 
evidence to assess the scope of the awards' recognition; the record did not include evidence that the 
competition for the awards is recognized by the general public, that competition results are widely 
reported in international media, or that the awards gamer attention comparable to other major, globally 
recognized awards. On appeal, the Petitioner quotes from a Wikipedia page for the I I 
which promotes the event as "the world's richest and most 
prestigious horse show." The Petitioner also asserts, 
[T]he very phrase 'World Champion' denotes that the achievement is a major 
achievement of international renown-the very top, in fact, in Petitioner's field of 
expertise of Saddlebred horse training and competing in the global equine industry. 
These World Championship Titles have garnered Petitioner international attention, 
renown, and permanence in her field of expertise. 
The record, however, does not include documentation to corroborate this assertion. While letters of 
endorsement speak to the Petitioner's accomplishments as a Saddlebred Horse trainer and competitor, 
neither the letters nor other documentation in the record provide evidence showing that the World 
Championship Horse Show grants an award or prize that is considered to be internationally recognized. 
Because the record does not provide evidence to establish that the Petitioner's awards constitute a one­
time achievement of a caliber considered to be internationally recognized within the field, we conclude 
that the Petitioner has not established eligibility in accordance with 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
In addition to evidence to establish that the Petitioner has received a major, internationally recognized 
award, the Petitioner submitted evidence to demonstrate her qualifications under four of the alternate 
criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). 
Documentation of the individual's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
3 
In order to fulfill this criterion, the Petitioner must demonstrate that she received prizes or awards that 
are nationally or internationally recognized for excellence in her field of endeavor. 2 The Petitioner 
submitted evidence of numerous awards and show placements that she has received throughout her 
career, including photos of trophies, lists of competition results, information about horse show events 
in which she competed, evidence of relevant association memberships, and letters of endorsement. 
The Director determined that this evidence did not establish that the Petitioner met the requirements 
of this criterion. As described above, the Director dismissed lists showing the Petitioner's placement 
results and did not to give evidentiary weight to photos of trophies that do not depict the Petitioner's 
name. On appeal, the Petitioner reiterates that the letters of endorsement, certificates, and competition 
records serve to verify her achievements. 
As noted above, the Petitioner has established her receipt of the claimed awards. While the trophies 
do not identify her by name, the competition results and letters of endorsement corroborate her claims 
of receiving the awards corresponding to the trophies. The placement results and awards are also 
corroborated by the letters of endorsement and by online sources. A separate portion of the Director's 
decision focused on the categorization of the Petitioner's field of expertise as encompassing her 
abilities as both a trainer and a competitor. The Director affirmed that the Petitioner must establish 
her extraordinary ability as either a trainer or a competitor and dismissed this claim of combined roles 
as an assertion from the Petitioner's counsel; the Director stated that the assertions of counsel do not 
constitute evidence3 and concluded that no evidence was submitted to establish that the terms are used 
interchangeably. On appeal, the Petitioner reasserts that her abilities training and showing horses 
competitively are interconnected and should not be viewed as separate occupations. We disagree with 
the Director's characterization of the Petitioner's occupation and field of expertise; the evidence 
identifies the Petitioner as a horse trainer and a competitor at shows in which she has received awards 
based on the performance of horses that she trained and presented. However, we agree with the 
Director's analysis of whether the record demonstrates that the Petitioner's awards are lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes; the record does not include documentation to demonstrate on 
what scale the Petitioner's awards are recognized. The Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements 
for the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i). 
Documentation of the individual's membership in associations in the fieldfor which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. 8 
C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
To meet this criterion, the Petitioner must show that membership in the associations is based on the 
individual being judged by recognized national or international experts as having attained outstanding 
achievements in the field for which classification is sought. 4 The record includes evidence that the 
Petitioner has been a member of several equestrian associations in South Africa and currently is a 
2 Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, 
but are not limited to: the criteria used to grant the awards or prizes; the national or international significance of the awards 
or prizes in the field; and the number of awardees or prize recipients, as well as any limitations on competitors. See 
generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
3 See Matter of Obaigbena, 19 l&N Dec. 533, 534 (BIA 1988); Matter of Ramirez-Sanchez, 17 l&N Dec. 503, 506 (BIA 
1980). 
4 See generally 6 USC1S Policy Manual F.2 (Appendix), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual/volume-6-part-f-chapter-2. 
4 
member of the followin or anizations in the United States: the aforementioned I 
While 
additional documentation concerning admittance to the South African associations was not included 
in the record, bylaws for the latter three groups provide requirements for membership such as age, 
length of experience, participation as a competitor, employment in the field of equestrianism, 
character, and payment of dues. The Director determined that membership in these associations did 
not appear to require outstanding achievements as assessed by experts in the field. On appeal, the 
Petitioner reiterates that "these associations are limited to professionals who derive their income from 
the equestrian field, and some, such as I I further limit their membership to those they find 
acceptable both personally and professionally." While the record demonstrates that the Petitioner had 
to meet certain requirements to become a member of these associations, the record does not include 
documentation showing that membership in these associations requires the attainment of any specific 
achievements judged as outstanding by experts in the field. The Petitioner has not established that she 
meets the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in her field of endeavor. The Petitioner initially submitted an article from Farmer's Weekly that 
featured the work of her mother, which the Director concluded was not about the Petitioner. The 
Petitioner also included articles that consist of her photo and reference her participation or placement 
at shows during her childhood in South Africa. The Director noted that these brief articles appear to 
have been from regional publications and do not identify authors, determining that the Petitioner did 
not submit any qualifying material from professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
We note that the record also contains pages that include photos of the Petitioner and other individuals 
presenting at horse shows; these appear to be promotional materials from I IS tables in 
Kentucky and other businesses in the region, which also do not qualify as material about the Petitioner 
from major publications. On appeal, the Petitioner states that these and the Farmer's Weekly article 
are "relevant to Petitioner's work and competition in the field of endeavor in that the expertise and 
skills gained during her youth, addressed in the article( s ), has [sic] enabled her to achieve the superior 
status in the industry that she has today." The Petitioner does not acknowledge the lack of substance 
or absence of authors for these articles that note her early participation in horse shows. While the 
articles may demonstrate the Petitioner's history of participation in the field, the record does not 
demonstrate that the articles qualify for the requirements of this criterion; the record does not include 
documentation from professional or major trade publications or other major media concerning the 
Petitioner and her work in the field. The Petitioner has not established that she meets the requirements 
of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
Evidence that the individual has commanded a high salary or other sign[ficantly high 
remuneration for services, in relation to others in the.field. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
To meet this criterion, the record must establish that the Petitioner has received a salary or other 
significantly high remuneration for services in relation to other individuals working in the field of 
5 
endeavor. The record includes salary information for animal and horse trainers from the Bureau of 
Labor Statistics' O*Net and Zippia.com, respectively, as well as tax documents and internal financial 
information from _________ The Director determined that, because the record does 
not include documentation showing the Petitioner's individual earnings, she has not established her 
eligibility under this criterion. A draft5 copy of page one of the 2021 partnership tax return forl I I I shows gross receipts or sales at $667,589 and ordinary business income totaling 
$254,686, which the Petitioner asserted in response to the RFE and asserts again on appeal is a sum 
of "more than four times the prevailing wage in that field." The Petitioner states that, because she 
owns and runs the business, "the company's earnings are directly related to [her] remuneration." 
However, the Petitioner is not the sole member of I I instead, the record 
indicates that she owns only 50% of the membership interests of the limited liability company (LLC). 
The Petitioner did not provide the remaining pages of the LLC' s 2021 partnership tax return, including 
all schedules, to evince her 50% share of its income, deductions, credits, and other items. Further, the 
tax return does not indicate that the LLC paid her any salaries, wages, or guaranteed payments to 
partners. Additionally, the record does not contain the Petitioner's personal tax returns or wage 
statements. Thus, we are unable to determine her salary and other remuneration for services, and how 
such remuneration relates to other individuals working in the field, based on the insufficient 
documentation in the record. 
The record also includes evaluations of the company from the company's bookkeeper and from the 
Petitioner herself The bookkeeper estimates that, in combination with the Petitioner's skillset and the 
fact that the business operates in both the training and sale of horses, the business has a "25-30% 
higher earning potential than other horse trainers in this area." The Petitioner's evaluation estimates 
the value of the business at $386,000. These estimates are not supported by objective financial 
information for the Petitioner's business as it compares to other similar businesses, and the estimates 
to not provide specific insights into the Petitioner's salary or other remuneration for services. We note 
that also absent from the record is evidence of earnings accrued through any prizes awarded to the 
Petitioner through competitions at which prize money was purportedly awarded. The evidence of 
record does not demonstrate that the Petitioner has commanded a high salary or other remuneration 
for services in relation to others in her field. Thus, the Petitioner has not established that she meets 
the requirements of the criterion at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
evidence that meets at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise that we 
have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding that it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already at the top 
of their respective fields. Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of her work is 
5 Because this tax return does not appear to have been filed and processed by the Internal Revenue Service, it is of limited 
probative value in these proceedings. The Petitioner must support her Assertions with relevant, probative, and credible 
evidence. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 l&N Dec. at 376. 
6 
indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent with a 
"career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 
(Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and she is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
The Petitioner has not demonstrated eligibility as an individual of extraordinary ability. The appeal 
will be dismissed for the above stated reasons. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
7 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services 
In Re: 25431793 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision Non-Precedent Decision of the 
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 28, 2023 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a professional tennis player, seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary 
ability. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b )(1 )(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ l 153(b)(l)(A). This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who 
can demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and 
whose achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation . 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish the Petitioner met the initial evidence requirements for the classification by establishing his 
receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting three of the ten evidentiary criteria 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. § 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence . 
Matter ofChawathe , 25 l&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act makes immigrant visas available to individuals with extraordinary 
ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained 
national or international acclaim and whose achievements have been recognized in the field through 
extensive documentation; who seek to enter the United States to continue work in the area of 
extraordinary ability; and whose entry into the United States will substantially benefit prospectively 
the United States. The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small 
percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The 
implementing regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner 
can demonstrate international recognition of his or her achievements in the field through a one-time 
achievement, that is, a major, internationally recognized award. If that petitioner does not submit this 
evidence, then he or she must provide sufficient qualifying documentation that meets at least three of 
the ten criteria listed at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x), including items such as awards, published 
material in certain media, and scholarly articles. 
Where a petitioner meets the initial evidence requirements through either a one-time achievement or 
meeting three lesser criteria, we then consider the totality of the material provided in a final merits 
determination and assess whether the record shows sustained national or international acclaim and 
demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage at the very top of the field of 
endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir. 2010) (discussing a two-part review where 
the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the required number of criteria, considered in 
the context of a final merits determination); see also Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 
(D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 (W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is a professional tennis player who outlined his achievements to include, in part, playing 
in every grand slam tournament and reaching an international rank ofc=J for men's singles. The 
Petitioner stated that he accomplished numerous achievements in his field of expertise which have been 
recognized on both a national and international level. Because the Petitioner has not indicated or shown 
that he received a major, internationally recognized award, he must satisfy at least three of the alternate 
regulatory criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)-(x). The Petitioner claims to have satisfied four of 
these criteria, summarized below: 
• (i), documentation of the individual's receipt oflesser nationally or internationally recognized 
prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor 
• (ii), membership in associations requiring outstanding achievements of their members 
• (iii), published material about the individual in professional or major media 
• (ix), high remuneration for services 
The Director concluded the Petitioner met one criterion pertaining to the receipt of lesser nationally 
or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. On appeal, the 
Petitioner asserts that his evidence satisfies the applicable legal requirements to satisfy the other 
claimed criteria. 
We will not disturb the Director's determinations regarding the one criterion met by the Petitioner. 
But for the reasons discussed below, we agree with the Director that the Petitioner has not satisfied 
the other claimed criteria. 
A. Evidentiary Criteria 
Published material about the individual in professional or major trade publications or 
other major media, relating to the individual's work in the field.for which class[fication 
is sought. Such evidence shall include the title, date, and author of the material and 
any necessary translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to his specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). With the petition, 
the Petitioner submitted online articles from various websites and publications. In his decision, the 
2 
Director indicated that he reviewed the articles submitted and found that none of the articles met plain 
language requirements of the regulation since some articles lacked the URL address or the author, and 
the Petitioner did not provide sufficient evidence to establish that the cited sources qualify as 
professional or major trade publications or other major media. 
On a eal the Petitioner states that the article submitted meets the plain language of the regulation: ________ _______ written by land published at 
atptour.corn on __ 2016. On appeal, the Petitioner submits the full URL address, and a printout 
from rankranger.corn that lists the organic traffic of atptour.corn as 22.5 million. However, the record 
does not contextualize this statistic, indicate its significance, or elaborate on how that information 
could establish that the website is the type of major media contemplated by 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
The submitted materials therefore do not meet the Petitioner's burden to show atptour.corn as major 
media. See Matter of Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
The Petitioner further states that he was part of a media program produced by People Daily and 
featured on many affiliating major media platforms, including people.en. The media coverage 
occurred on 2019, and it was called I I On appeal, 
the Petitioner submits the program that was posted on the People Daily 's online platform, 
www.people.cn. However, the Petitioner did not provide the full transcript of the media coverage to 
include the information of the author and reporter of this program. 
The Petitioner also submits additional articles about him posted to tennis.corn. On appeal, the 
Petitioner submits the website visitation and ranking data for tennis.corn from SirnilarWeb.corn. 
Evidence of published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that 
the circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2 (Appendices), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policyrnanual ( discussing circulation or viewership ). On appeal, the Petitioner 
asserts tennis.corn received 2.8 million visits. The website statistics from SirnilarWeb.corn indicate 
that tennis.corn ranks 28,978 globally and eighth in sports and tennis in the United States; it also shows 
the average amount of visits to the website and time viewers spend on the website. However, the 
record does not contextualize those statistics, indicate their significance, or elaborate on how that 
information could establish that the website is the type of major media contemplated by 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
In addition, the Petitioner submitted an article about him from tennisworldusa.org, and a printout from 
TennisWorld USA stating it has "more than 50 million readers per year." However, this is a self­
reported figure from the website's editor or publisher. The Petitioner did not support the record with 
independent, objective evidence corroborating the website's claims. USCIS need not rely on the self­
promotional material of the publisher. See Braga v. Poulos, No. CV 06-5105 SJO FMOX, 2007 WL 
9229758, at *7 (C.D. Cal. July 6, 2007), aff'd, 317 F. App'x 680 (9th Cir. 2009) (concluding that the 
agency did not have to rely on a company's self-serving assertions on the cover of a magazine as to 
the magazine's status as major media). Without more information, it is not clear if this is major media. 
Despite the deficiencies noted above, we further observe that the documentary evidence reflects 
published material about the Petitioner relating to his work as a professional tennis player. The plain 
language of the regulation at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) requires "[p]]ublished material about the alien 
3 
in professional or major trade publications or other major media, relating to the alien's work in the 
field for which classification is sought [emphasis added]." As noted by the Director, the Petitioner 
intends to enter the United States as a tennis coach. Therefore, any published material as a competitor 
is not within the Petitioner's field of endeavor as a coach. See Lee v. INS., 237 F. Supp. 2d 914 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (upholding a finding that competitive athletics and coaching are not within the same area of 
expertise). Moreover, the Petitioner does not claim, nor does the record of proceeding reflect, that the 
Petitioner has had any published material about him as a coach consistent with the regulation at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). 
After review of the totality of the evidence submitted in support of this criterion, we conclude that the 
Petitioner has not established that he meets this criterion. 
Evidence that the alien has commanded a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for 
services, in relation to others in the field. 
On appeal, the Petitioner claims that he meets this criterion when his remuneration is compared 
specifically to other Chinese professional tennis players. The Petitioner did not submit financial 
evidence such as tax returns or income statements. Instead, the Petitioner utilized the information 
found on atptour.com regarding career prize money earned by professional tennis la ers on the ATP 
tour. The Petitioner rovides a printout from atptour.com of the 
and their prize money earned from ATP events that listed the _ 
_____________ for each player, including the Petitioner. These figures appear 
to constitute earnings over the course of each player's career. The remuneration of the Petitioner and 
four additional players were listed as: $1,106768; $748,947; $639,331; $425,427; and, $406,732. The 
Petitioner earned the second highest remuneration at $748,947. 
The Petitioner seeks classification as an individual of extraordinary ability, one of those individuals in 
that small percentage who have risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. Commensurate with 
such standing, the Petitioner must submit documentary evidence of the earnings of those in his 
occupation performing similar work at the top level of the field. In the instance circumstance, the 
Petitioner claims extraordinary ability as a tennis player, yet compares his remuneration only to other 
Chinese professional tennis players and not all professional tennis players. The Petitioner has not 
shown that this is indicative of significantly high remuneration consistent within the plain meaning of 
this criterion. For this reason, the Petitioner has not met this criterion. 
While the Petitioner argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to 
membership in associations that require outstanding achievements at C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), it is 
unnecessary for us to reach a decision on this additional ground because he cannot numerically meet 
the required number of criteria. As the Petitioner cannot fulfill the initial evidentiary requirement of 
three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3), we reserve this issue. See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 
24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make findings 
and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
4 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten lesser criteria. We also need not provide the type of final 
merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20, or render a determination on the 
issue of whether the Petitioner's entry will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
Accordingly, we reserve these issues. 1 
Nevertheless, we have reviewed the record in the aggregate and concluded that it does not support a 
conclusion that the Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification 
sought. The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for individuals already 
at the top of their respective fields, rather than those progressing toward the top. Price, 20 I&N Dec. 
at 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994) (concluding that even major league level athletes do not automatically 
meet the statutory standards for classification as an individual of "extraordinary ability,"); Visinscaia, 
4 F. Supp. 3d at 131 (internal quotation marks omitted) (finding that the extraordinary ability 
designation is "extremely restrictive by design,"); Hamal v. Dep 't of Homeland Sec. (Hamal II), No. 
19-cv-2534, 2021 WL 2338316, at *5 (D.D.C. June 8, 2021) (determining that EB-1 visas are 
"reserved for a very small percentage of prospective immigrants"). See also Hamal v. Dep 't of 
Homeland Sec. (Hamal I), No. 19-cv-2534, 2020 WL 2934954, at *l (D.D.C. June 3, 2020) (citing 
Kazarian, 596 at 1122 (upholding denial of petition of a published theoretical physicist specializing 
in non-Einsteinian theories of gravitation) (stating that "[c]ourts have found that even highly 
accomplished individuals fail to win this designation")); Lee v. Ziglar, 237 F. Supp. 2d 914,918 (N.D. 
Ill. 2002) (finding that "arguably one of the most famous baseball players in Korean history" did not 
qualify for visa as a baseball coach). Here, the Petitioner has not shown that the significance of his 
work is indicative of the required sustained national or international acclaim or that it is consistent 
with a "career of acclaimed work in the field" as contemplated by Congress. H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 
59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b )(1 )(A) of the Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise 
demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or international acclaim in the field, and he is 
one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor. See section 
203(b)(l)(A) of the Act and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The record does not contain sufficient evidence 
establishing that he is among the upper echelon in his field. 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated his eligibility as an individual of 
extraordinary ability. The appeal will be dismissed for the above stated reasons, with each considered 
as an independent and alternate basis for the decision. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
1 See INS v. Bagamasbad, 429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required 
to make findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter of L-A-C-, 26 l&N Dec. 516, n.7 
( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
5 U.S. Citizenship 
and Immigration 
Services Non-Precedent Decision of the
Administrative Appeals Office 
Date: FEB. 29, 2024 In Re: 32343994 
Appeal of Nebraska Service Center Decision 
Form 1-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers (Extraordinary Ability) 
The Petitioner, a mixed martial arts (MMA) fighter, seeks classification as an individual ofextraordinary 
ability in the athletics. See Immigration and Nationality Act (the Act) section 203(b)(l)(A), 8 U.S.C. 
§ 1153(b)(l)(A) . This first preference classification makes immigrant visas available to those who can 
demonstrate their extraordinary ability through sustained national or international acclaim and whose 
achievements have been recognized in their field through extensive documentation. 
The Director of the Nebraska Service Center denied the petition, concluding that the record did not 
establish that the Petitioner satisfied the initial evidence requirements for this classification by 
demonstrating her receipt of a major, internationally recognized award or by meeting at least three of 
the ten evidentiary criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). The matter is now before us on appeal. 8 C.F.R. 
§ 103.3. 
The Petitioner bears the burden ofproof to demonstrate eligibility by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. 369, 375-76 (AAO 2010). We review the questions in this matter 
de novo. Matter of Christo 's, Inc., 26 I&N Dec. 537, 537 n.2 (AAO 2015). Upon de novo review, 
we will dismiss the appeal. 
I. LAW 
Under section 203(b )( 1 )(A) of the Act, an individual is eligible for the extraordinary ability 
classification if: (i) they have extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or 
athletics which has been demonstrated by sustained national or international acclaim and their 
achievements have been recognized in the field through extensive documentation; (ii) they seek to 
enter the United States to continue work in the area of extraordinary ability; and (iii) their entry into 
the United States will substantially benefit prospectively the United States. 
The term "extraordinary ability" refers only to those individuals in "that small percentage who have 
risen to the very top of the field of endeavor." 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). The implementing regulation 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) sets forth a multi-part analysis. First, a petitioner may demonstrate 
international recognition of their achievements in the field through a one-time achievement (that is, a 
major, internationally recognized award). Absent such an achievement, the petitioner must provide 
sufficient qualifying documentation demonstrating that they meet at least three ofthe ten criteria listed 
at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) -(x). 
Where a petitioner meets these initial evidence requirements , we then consider the totality of the 
material provided in a final merits determination and assess whether the record shows sustained 
national or international acclaim and demonstrates that the individual is among the small percentage 
at the very top of the field of endeavor. See Kazarian v. USCIS, 596 F.3d 1115, 1119 (9th Cir. 2010) 
( discussing a two-part review where the documentation is first counted and then, if fulfilling the 
required number of criteria, considered in the context of a final merits determination); see also 
Visinscaia v. Beers, 4 F. Supp. 3d 126, 131-32 (D.D.C. 2013); Rijal v. USCIS, 772 F. Supp. 2d 1339 
(W.D. Wash. 2011). 
II. ANALYSIS 
The Petitioner is an athlete who competes as al !(individuals who weigh betweenD 
andOpounds) MMA fighter. If approved this classification , she intends to continue competing , and 
when she is not competing, she plans to mentor, train, and coach fighters at all levels of their career. 
She asserts she has an interest in promoting the sport among women in the United States and 
throughout the world through her network ofsocial media followers. She is working towards obtaining 
an MMA license in Illinois and will use her experience as a competitor to train other fighter s and the 
next generation of Americans in her sport. She asserts she is eager to create world champion 
competitors and that she is against steroid use and wants to promote that message. 
The Director concluded that the Petitioner has not established that she has received a major, 
internationally recognized prize or award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3) and that the evidence in the 
record demonstrates that she only meets one of the ten alternate criteria at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i)­
(x), of which she must meet at least three. Specifically, the Director held that she only met the criteria 
for lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of 
endeavor under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i) . 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that she is a "world-renowned female MMA competitor" and that she 
is celebrated as a multi-talented , professional female MMA athlete. She further asserts that she meets 
the alternate criteria: awards at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(i), membership at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii), 
published material at 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) , and command of high salary at 8 C.F.R. 
§ 204.5(h)(3)(ix) . For the reasons discussed below, the Petitioner has not established that she satisfies 
the requirements for an individual of extraordinary ability in athletics. 
A. Major International Award 
The Director determined the Petitioner has not established that she has earned a one-time 
achievement 
of a major, internationally recognized award under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). This regulation is 
consistent with the legislative history of section 203(b)(l)(A) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1153(b)(l)(A) , 
stating that a one-time achievement must be a major, internationall y recognized award. See H.R. Rep. 
101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 6710, 1990 WL 200418 at *6739. The 
House Report specifically cited to the Nobel Prize as an example of a one-time achievement. On 
appeal, the Petitioner does not contest the Director' s conclusion that she has not received a major 
2 
international award. As such, the issue is deemed waived. See, e.g., Matter ofM-A-S-, 24 I&N Dec. 
762, 767 n.2 (BIA 2009). 
B. Evidentiary Criteria 
Documentation of the noncitizen 's receipt of lesser nationally or internationally 
recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor. 8 C.F.R. § 
204.5(h)(3)(i) 
The Director determined the Petitioner meets this criterion, and we a ree based on the numerous 
awards she has received, including: first place as the.-------------,--------~Championship (March 2012); first lace winner of the Cham ionship in her 
weight class (November 2016); Cham ril 2018); first 
place, gold medal win at the Judo Championship......,. _____________ -,--_ __.among 
Women in her weight class (2012); first place in '----.-----------.----'in her weight 
class (award has no associated date); and first place at the.__ _______ __,Championship of 
Russia in her weight class in (September 2013). As such, this criterion is established. 
Documentation of the person's membership in associations in the field for which 
class[fication is sought, which require outstanding achievements oftheir members, as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or .fields. 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ii). 
The Petitioner asserts her eligibility for this criterion based on her association with the I 
The ~-----------------------------------~ Director concluded that her evidence did not meet the plain language of the regulation because the 
Petitioner did not establish these associations require outstanding achievements of their members as 
judged by recognized national or international experts in the field ofMMA. Specifically, the Director 
evaluated the letters she provided from I IPh.D. in Sports Training-Russia-Human 
Performance-Exercise Science, and froml Igeneral manager ofl Iand 
found the information insufficient because "no evidence was submitted to show the section of the 
association's constitution or bylaws which discuss the criteria for membership for [her] level of 
membership in the associations," "no evidence was submitted to establish that the individuals who 
review prospective members' applications are recognized as national or international experts in their 
disciplines or fields," and "no evidence was submitted to show the section of the association's 
constitution or bylaws which discuss the qualifications required of the reviewers on the review panel 
of the association." 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts she provided thel Ibylaws, and that herresponse to the Director's 
request for evidence (RFE) included sufficient evidence to establish her eligibility for this criterion. 1 
1 For the first time on appeal, the Petitioner submits the~---------~ bylaws or charter, which we 
decline to consider because the Director's request for additional evidence (RFE) notified the Petitioner of the need to 
submit this information, and on appeal, she has not attempted to explain why this evidence was not reasonably available 
earlier. See Matter o.fSoriano, 19 I&N Dec. 764, 766 (BIA 1988) (requiring rejection of appellate evidence where a party 
3 
Upon de novo review, we agree with the Director's conclusion because while the evidence establishes 
the Petitioner has competed at a high level in MMA, the letters do not establish the criteria used for 
ent into these associations. Furthermore, it is unclear if the.____________ ~_____,and 
are associations within the meaning of the regulation. For instance __... and t-------.-----~ a ear to be companies that employ and promote the Petitioner's fights, whereas and 
._________ _. appear to be training facilities. 
~---~I letter states that membership in the'-----------------~ requires 
a "combination oftalent, hard work, and dedication to MMA as a sport." He also provides background 
information about the sport of MMA and his personal qualifications. He confirms the Petitioner is a 
brand ambassador for the I Ifighting club in Russia, and a member oftheI Ifighting team 
andc=J He explains that she represented Russia on the~---------------~ 
and thel !fighting team. He describes~as a leading promoter of the sport MMA and 
explains the Petitioner signed a contract with c=J(which owns the c=J because of her success as 
an MMA fighter. He offers that the Petitioner was given the title of National MMA Champion and 
winner of thee=] andI I bouts, which were awarded to her by world-renowned referees and 
judges based on the MMA,~andl I world ranking systems. He further states that "[b]y 
winning thee=] and I I Championships, [she] was determined to be one of the best female 
athletes in the world, as well as one of the best representatives of [Russia], and as an outstanding 
achiever in the female world of MMA sports." He also confirms that she received money and 
certificates from the Russian government because of her achievements and concludes that she is an 
internationally recognized fighter in the field of MMA. 
c=]statement however is insufficient to establish the Petitioner's burden because it does not provide 
the criteria used for entry into the above-mentioned associations such that we can meaningfully 
understand how the Petitioner was chosen to join these MMA entities, or how selective these MMA 
entities are in their selection process. For instance, he describes how the Petitioner's talent, hard work, 
and dedication are attributes used to select her for '------------------~ however this is insufficient to meet the standard set forth in the regulation which requires "outstanding 
achievements oftheir members." Furthermore,c=] statement does not identify the judges or national 
or international experts that evaluated the Petitioner's fitness to join these entities. Without more 
information, the Petitioner has not met her burden by submitting ~ statement. See Matter of 
Chawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76 (noting that a petitioner must establish, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, all relevant facts). 
~--~I letter confirms he is general manager ofl I and that the Petitioner's is a~I--~ 
brand ambassador. The Petitioner also provides her sponsorship agreement, which outlines the nature 
of her business relationship with I I Other letters provided confirm she is a rofessional fi hter 
at theO since 2014 and of the I I and the 
I since 2013. The letter from the owner and head instru~c-to_r_o_,f__,....e_x_p-la_i_n~s 
that membership requires outstanding achievements from its members and that~ is home to some 
received prior notice of the required materials and a reasonable oppo1iunity to submit them); see also Oyeniran v. Holder, 
672 F.3d 800, 808-09 (9th Cir. 2012) (stating that "[i]t is not sufficient that the evidence physically existed in the world 
at large; rather, the evidence must have been reasonably available to the petitioner."). Therefore, we decline to review the 
bylaws. 
4 I 
ofthe best MMA fighters in the world, however no other details are provided to understand the criteria 
used to accept a fighter into thee=] such that it would be sufficient to establish the plain language 
of the regulation. Id. 
~-----1 a "lead/supervisor" at I I explains that the ~ is a professional MMA 
organization and "only those martial artists who are at the pinnacle of their chosen field of mixed 
martial arts are chosen." However, the letter lacks sufficient details regarding the criteria used to 
accept MMA fighters into the~ to understand what is entailed to become ac=]fighter. I I 
Owner and Head Instructor provides a letter asserting that membership requires "outstanding 
achievements," however as noted above, no additional detail is provided to meaningfully understand 
the I Icriteria for its selection of fighters. 
The Petitioner provided two contracts. Thee=] contract explains her agreement with D which 
promotes her MMA fights. The contract's provisions cover her fees, as well as issues concerning her 
media exposure. For example, it states she will be paid $8,000 for her first bout minus all permissible 
or required deductions, and that if she is declared winner of the first bout, her "purse" for the second 
bout will be $10,000, less all permissible or required deductions, and that if she wins the second bout, 
her purse for the third bout will be $12,000. None of the remaining contract's provisions discuss the 
criteria used to choose which fighters will join thee=] The other contract is betweenl land 
the Petitioner and concerns a promotional agreement between the parties. Like thee=] contract, this 
contract covers fees, conduct, breach, insurance, medical issues, and contains other contractual clauses 
to govern their relationship. However, neither of the contracts contains provisions that discuss the 
"outstanding achievements of their members" or what criteria is used to select an MMA fighter. As 
such, the contracts do not provide sufficient evidence to establish the plain language of this criterion. 
Id. 
The Petitioner asserts that fighting for I I and training with ~ means she is part of an elite 
group of MMA fighters. She also asserts that membership in the professional fighting league of 
I I requires outstanding achievements of its members in martial arts. With her RFE response, 
she submitted a letter from I I founder ofl lwhich she asserts is the I I 
.________ __, MMA organization. This letter names several top fighters that are I I 
Fighters and calls the Petitioner "an outstanding competitor," and confirms that she joinedl I 
in January 201 7. I I further asserts the Petitioner "has competed and won international mixed 
martial arts contests and she is highly ranked in international MMA rankings." Finally, she claims 
only those "female martial artists who are at the pinnacle of their chosen field of mixed marital arts 
are chosen to participate inl levents," and that her contract withl lis for three 
fights for which she will receive guaranteed fees, which increase with each subsequent fight. While 
this letter confirms the Petitioner's reputation as a successful MMA fighter, it does not provide 
sufficient detail to understand the criteria used byl Ito choose fighters. Furthermore, as stated 
above, the Petitioner has not established that a promotional organization, such as I I should 
be considered an association, within the meaning of this criterion, because I I acts as the 
Petitioner's employer and promoter. Finally, the assertions in the letter are not supported by objective 
evidence, and therefore are insufficient to meet her burden. Id. 
In sum, while the evidence establishes that the Petitioner is a paid MMA fighter who trains for her 
fights at specialized MMA gyms, and that she has entered into contracts with MMA promoters, the 
5 
evidence remains insufficient to establish she is a member of associations in the field for which 
classification is sought, which require outstanding achievements of their members, as judged by 
recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields. Moreover, there is 
insufficient evidence to establish that her selection for the.__ _______________ ____. 
and the I I fighting team meets the plain language of the regulation. As such, this criterion has 
not been met. 
Evidence ofpublished material about the individual in professional or major trade 
publications or other major media, relating to their work in the field for which 
classification is sought. Such evidence must include the title, date, and author ofthe 
material, and any necessmy translation. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii) 
To meet this criterion, the published material must be about the Petitioner and related to her specific 
work in the field for which classification is sought; it must include the title, date, and author of the 
material and any necessary translation; and the publication must qualify as a professional publication, 
major trade publication, or major media publication. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iii). Evidence of 
published material in major media publications about the Petitioner should establish that the 
circulation ( online or in print) or viewership is high compared to other statistics and identify the 
intended audience. See generally 6 USCIS Policy Manual F.2(B)(l) (criterion 6), 
https://www.uscis.gov/policymanual ( discussing circulation or viewership ). 
The Director determined the Petitioner submitted articles about herself but provided insufficient 
evidence to establish that the publications are in professional or major trade publications or other major 
media. On appeal, she asserts that the publications in which she was featured are major media sources 
for athletes, and provides a printout from the website alltop.com, which lists the "most popular 
stories," in sports news. She also submits several pages of information with the title of the articles, 
the URL where the article can be located, the name of publication, and date the article was posted. 
Many of the URLs provided are for youtube.com clips of her bouts, and she includes the URL, name 
of the fight, who posted the video, how many subscribers the poster has, the date the video was 
premiered, and the number of views. She asserts that because youtube.com has 2.5 billion users, it is 
a major media platform. She highlights that one of her youtube bouts received 514,000 views, and 
another bout received 95,000 views. Finally, she explains that her fights are property ofl I 
and can only be viewed through the~events channels, and that they are streamed on ESPN+. She 
asserts that ESPN, Forbes, Fox Sports, Yahoo Entertainment, and MMA Junkie are all major media 
for athletes. 
We acknowledge that Y ouTube is a popular video sharing and social media platform with many users. 
However, the Petitioner's evidence is insufficient to find that Y ouTube is major media within the 
meaning of the regulation because the platform contains content with virtually no vetting or editing. 
Many of the articles submitted in publications like MMA Today, MMA Underground, MMA Weekly, 
bloodyelbow.com, wrestlingnews.com, wombatsports.com, mixedmartialarts.com, and MMA Junkie 
lack an author, or a date, and thus do not meet the plain language of the regulation. For exam le, the 
article.___________________________ __. published on 
2014, in Women's MMA Today, an on-line magazine, has no author. The article.__ _____ _. 
published online on 
bloodyelbow.com has an author but no date. Moreover, even if these articles had contained the 
6 
I required author and date, the Petitioner did not provide comparative evidence to contextualize whether 
for example, bloodyelbow.com or wrestlingnews.com, are major media or professional or major trade 
publications in her field as required by the regulation. Matter ofChawathe, 25 I&N Dec. at 375-76. 
Finally, while we acknowledge her statement that the rights to televise her bouts are owned byl 
the Petitioner has not established how televised bouts could be considered "published material" within 
the meaning of the regulation. Id. 
We acknowledge the Petitioner has received media attention from numerous on-line publications, 
however, due to the deficiencies noted above, she has not established she meets this criterion. 
Evidence ofthe person's participation, either individualZv or on a panel, as a judge of 
the work ofothers in the same or an allied field ofspecification for which classification 
is sought. 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(iv) 
The Petitioner initially submitted her "MMAjudge badge" issued by the MMA Federation of Russia, 
and a certificate awarding her "MMA Coach ofthe Highest category." However, as the Director noted 
in their RFE, she did not provide evidence showing that she participated individually or on a panel in 
an official capacity as a judge of the work of others in her field. With her RFE response, she provided 
a "Sport Judges' Record Keeping Book," which she described as an identification document issued to 
her by the Athletics-Sport Organization, Panel of the Board of Federation of Publication Organization 
Federation of MMA I I The Director determined that the book established she was a 
referee, but that refereeing is not judging because a referee is involved in ensuring fair play according 
to the rules of the sport. Furthermore, because no other evidence was submitted to establish the 
Petitioner judged or served as a judge, at what level, or other independent and objective documentation 
about the event or occasion where she served as judge, the work that was judged, the level of the 
participants, how she was selected as an official judge, or any other evidence to establish when the 
judging occurred, the Director determined she did not meet this criterion. 
On appeal, the Petitioner asserts that her evidence is sufficient to establish she has served as a judge 
within the meaning of the regulation and that in the Russian language, a sports judge can be translated 
into English as either a sports referee or sports judge. However, she has not provided any objective 
evidence to support her assertion. Id. Furthermore, her evidence and assertions do not sufficiently 
address the Director's concerns, and as such, she has not established this criterion. Id. 
The Petitioner argues and submits evidence for one additional criterion on appeal relating to command 
of a high salary or other significantly high remuneration for services in relation to others in the field at 
8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3)(ix), however we will reserve this issue because the Petitioner cannot fulfill the 
initial evidentiary requirement of three criteria under 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(3). See INS v. Bagamasbad, 
429 U.S. 24, 25-26 (1976) (stating that, like courts, federal agencies are not generally required to make 
findings and decisions unnecessary to the results they reach); see also Matter ofL-A-C-, 26 I&N Dec. 
516, n.7 ( declining to reach alternative issues on appeal where an applicant is otherwise ineligible). 
III. CONCLUSION 
The Petitioner has not submitted the required initial evidence of either a one-time achievement or 
documents that meet at least three of the ten criteria. As a result, we do not need to provide the type 
7 
of final merits determination referenced in Kazarian, 596 F.3d at 1119-20. Nevertheless, we advise 
that we have reviewed the record in the aggregate, concluding it does not support a finding that the 
Petitioner has established the acclaim and recognition required for the classification sought. 
The Petitioner seeks a highly restrictive visa classification, intended for the handful of individuals at 
the top of their respective fields. USCIS has long held that even athletes performing at the major 
league level do not automatically meet the "extraordinary ability" standard. Matter ofPrice, 20 I&N 
Dec. 953, 954 (Assoc. Comm'r 1994). As contemplated by Congress, the Petitioner must demonstrate 
the required sustained national or international acclaim, consistent with a "career of acclaimed work 
in the field." H.R. Rep. No. 101-723, 59 (Sept. 19, 1990); see also section 203(b)(l)(A) of the 
Act. Moreover, the record does not otherwise demonstrate that the Petitioner has garnered national or 
international acclaim in the field, and she is one of the small percentage who has risen to the very top 
of her field of endeavor. See section 203(b )(1 )(A) and 8 C.F.R. § 204.5(h)(2). 
For the reasons discussed above, the Petitioner has not demonstrated their eligibility as an individual 
of extraordinary ability. 
ORDER: The appeal is dismissed. 
8 